The name of this welfare scheme is “Medical Camps (Allopathy and Indian systems of Medicine)" under Grant-in-Aid to Pondicherry Society for the Care of the Aged (PONCARE). It is also known as MCACISM-GIAPSCA. The sub-scheme “Medical Camps (Allopathy and Indian systems of Medicine)&quot; under the umbrella scheme &quot;Grant-in-Aid to Pondicherry Society for the Care of the Aged (PONCARE)&quot; was launched by the Department of Social Welfare, Government of Puducherry. Through this scheme, senior citizens are provided free health checkups and free medicines. The scheme targets beneficiaries such as Individual. It is specifically implemented in Puducherry. Additionally, the nodal department is Social Welfare Department, Puducherry.

The scheme provides the following benefits: Free Health Checkup and Free Medicines.
Awareness Speech by Doctors.

Eligibility criteria include: The applicant should be 60 years or above in age.
The applicant should be a Native/Resident of the Union Territory of Puducherry for at least 5 years. The application process is as follows: Step 1: The interested applicant should visit (during office hours) the Pondicherry Society for the care of the Aged (PONCARE), Puducherry, 4th Cross Sithankudi, 6th Cross Extension, Brindavanam, West, Puducherry 605 013, +914132245317, +914132246318, +919443405499, and request the hard copy of the prescribed format of the application form from the staff exclusively entrusted to issue and collect filledin applications.
Step 2: In the application form, fill in all the mandatory fields, paste the passportsized photograph (signed across, if required), and attach copies of all the mandatory documents (selfattest, if required).
Step 3: Submit the duly filled and signed application form along with the documents to The Secretary, PONCARE.
Step 4: Request a receipt or acknowledgement from the concerned authority to whom the application has been submitted. Ensure that the receipt contains essential details such as the date and time of submission, and a unique identification number (if applicable). For more information, please refer to: Citizen's Charter: https://socwelfare.py.gov.in/sites/default/files/citizen-charter.pdf Contact Us: https://socwelfare.py.gov.in/contact-us Sub Offices: https://socwelfare.py.gov.in/sub--office-social-welfare-department Grievance Redressal: https://pgportal.gov.in/ Tags associated with the scheme include: Checkup, Doctor, Health, Medicine, Senior Citizen.