The name of this welfare scheme is Mai Bhago Vidya Scheme. It is also known as MBVS. Mai Bhago Vidya Scheme aims to ensure that the girl’s students continue their education beyond the level of primary, to promote girl&#39;s enrollment, and reduce the dropout of the girl child in the senior secondary and higher secondary school level. 
The name Mai Bhago is one of the brave Sikh women soldiers who guided Sikh soldiers against the Mughals in 1705. She was the hero of that war because she killed a number of Mughals soldiers.
In the State, most of the girls leave their education after 8th class because schools are far away from their homes. It is not easy for them to go to school without any vehicles and most families in Punjab villages cannot afford vehicles or bicycles for their girl’s child. Mai Bhago Vidya Scheme helps those school-going girls who cannot afford the vehicles. The scheme targets beneficiaries such as Individual. It is specifically implemented in Punjab. Additionally, the nodal department is Department of Social Security and Development of Women and Children.

The scheme provides the following benefits: Free bicycles are provided to all girl students of 9th to 12th classes.

Eligibility criteria include: Girl students should be residents of Punjab state.
Girl students should be studying in standards 9th,10th, 11th, and 12th in the government school.
Girl students should belong to those below the poverty line (BPL). The application process is as follows: Applicants can also contact the principal of their concerned school regarding the Scheme.
   The application form will be provided by the concerned person.
   Fill up the application form and submit all the required Documents.
   Verification of the details of the applicant will be done by the concerned authority.
   After successful verification, the applicant can avail the benefit of the scheme. For more information, please refer to: Guidelines: https://sswcd.punjab.gov.in/en/wcd/state-schemes Tags associated with the scheme include: Education, Free Cycle, Girl Empowerment, Girl Welfare.