The name of this welfare scheme is Marriage Assistance Scheme (PBAOCWWB). It is also known as MA-PBAOCWWB. The &quot;Marriage Assistance&quot; is a Welfare Scheme by the Puducherry Building and Other Construction Workers Welfare Board, Labour Department, Union Territory of Puducherry. Through this scheme, financial assistance of ₹7,000/- is provided to the registered construction workers of the Board for the marriage of their children. The benefits can be availed for the marriage of up to two children of the worker. Interested and eligible applicants should apply within six months from the date of marriage. A female member is also eligible for this assistance for her own marriage. The amount of the financial assistance is credited to the bank account of the beneficiary through Direct Benefit Transfer (DBT). The scheme targets beneficiaries such as Individual, Family. It is specifically implemented in Puducherry. Additionally, the nodal department is Labour Department, Puducherry.

The scheme provides the following benefits: Financial Assistance of ₹7,000/.
The benefits can be availed for the marriage of up to two children of the worker.
A female worker can avail of this assistance for her own marriage.

Eligibility criteria include: The applicant should be a citizen of India.
The applicant should be registered as a Construction Worker with the Puducherry Building and Other Construction Workers Welfare Board.
The applicant should have completed the age of 18 years.
The applicant should not have completed the age of 60 years during the preceding 12 months in the construction work.
The beneficiary should be contributing to the Board&#39;s Fund.
The applicant should not have defaulted in payment of contribution to the Board for a continuous period of more than one year. The application process is as follows: > Registration

Step 1: The interested construction worker should visit the Office of the Puducherry Building and Other Construction Workers Welfare Board (Industrial Estate, Thattanchavady, Puducherry 605 009) and obtain the prescribed format of the registration form free of cost from the concerned authority exclusively entrusted to issue and collect filledin applications.
Step 2: In the registration form, fill in all the mandatory fields, paste the passportsized photograph (signed across, if required), and attach copies of all the mandatory documents (selfattest, if required), add a declaration stating that you are a construction worker, mentioning your worksite. 
Step 3: The interested construction worker should submit the duly filled and signed registration form and the documents to the concerned authority.
Step 4: Request a receipt or acknowledgement from the concerned authority to whom the registration form has been submitted. Ensure that the receipt contains essential details such as the date and time of submission, and a unique identification number (if applicable).
Step 5: Upon verification by the inspectors under the Act towards genuineness, the concerned worker will be enrolled as a beneficiary with the approval of the Secretary (Board). 
The beneficiary should pay the registration of ₹25/at the time of enrollment and ₹100/per year as an annual subscription.
The Board collects ₹300/as a renewal fee once in three years.


> Application

Step 1: The interested construction worker should visit the Office of the Puducherry Building and Other Construction Workers Welfare Board (Industrial Estate, Thattanchavady, Puducherry 605 009) and obtain the prescribed format of the application form free of cost from the concerned authority exclusively entrusted to issue and collect filledin applications.
OR
The interested construction worker should take print of the prescribed format of the application form provided in the section &quot;Application for Welfare Benefits&quot; on Page No. 77 of the Citizen&#39;s Charter.
Step 2: In the application form, fill in all the mandatory fields, paste the passportsized photograph (signed across, if required), and attach copies of all the mandatory documents (selfattest, if required).
Step 3: The interested construction worker should submit the duly filled and signed application form and the documents to the concerned authority.
Step 4: Request a receipt or acknowledgement from the concerned authority to whom the application form has been submitted. Ensure that the receipt contains essential details such as the date and time of submission, and a unique identification number (if applicable).
NOTE: The application should be submitted within six months from the date of marriage. For more information, please refer to: Guidelines (Page No. 60): https://labour.py.gov.in/sites/default/files/citizens-charter-2020.pdf Application Form (Page No. 78): https://labour.py.gov.in/sites/default/files/citizens-charter-2020.pdf Registration Process (Page No. 57): https://labour.py.gov.in/sites/default/files/citizens-charter-2020.pdf Documents Required (Page No. 58): https://labour.py.gov.in/sites/default/files/citizens-charter-2020.pdf Grievance Redressal (Page No. 131): https://labour.py.gov.in/sites/default/files/citizens-charter-2020.pdf Tags associated with the scheme include: Construction, DBT, Financial Assistance, Labour, Marriage.