The name of this welfare scheme is Financial Assistance to Widow/Dependent in case of Death of a Worker- Haryana Labour Welfare Board. It is also known as FAWDDWHLWB. The scheme “Financial Assistance to Widow/Dependent in case of Death of a Worker” is implemented by the Haryana Labour Welfare Board (HLWB), Labour Department, Government of Haryana. Under this scheme, financial assistance of ₹2,00,000/- is given to the widow or dependent of the worker working in the industrial and commercial establishments of Haryana state in case of his death due to any reason. The scheme targets beneficiaries such as Family. It is specifically implemented in Haryana. The implementing agency is Haryana Labour Welfare Board. Additionally, the nodal department is Labour Department.

The scheme provides the following benefits: Under this scheme, financial assistance of ₹2,00,000/is given to the widow or dependent of the deceased worker.

Eligibility criteria include: The applicant should be the widow or dependent of a deceased worker.
   The deceased worker should have been employed in an industrial or commercial establishment in Haryana.
   The deceased worker should have been registered with the Haryana Labour Welfare Board.
   There is no maximum limit set for the monthly salary of the worker.
   There is no fixed service period requirement for the worker.
   The application should be submitted within two years from the date of death of the worker. The application process is as follows: &gt; Apply for scheme benefits through the AntyodayaSARAL Portal:

Registration Process on AntyodayaSARAL Portal:
Step 01: To avail of the benefits of the scheme, the applicant needs to visit the Official Portal AntyodayaSARAL Portal: https://saralharyana.gov.in/
Step 02: If the applicant is not registered on the portal, then he/she gets registered on the portal. 
Step 03: For registration, click on “New User” under ‘Sign In Here’ and fill in all the mandatory details i.e. Full Name, Email ID, Mobile Number, Password &amp;amp; State. Click on ‘Submit’.
Step 04: Verify your mobile number and email ID through the received OTP and complete the registration process.
Login to Apply for the Scheme:
Step 01: Now, to avail the benefits of the scheme, visit the Official Portal AntyodayaSARAL Portal and login through the email ID that is used while registering.
Step 02: Enter Password &amp;amp; Captcha and click on ‘Login’.
Step 03: After successful login, click on ‘Apply for Services’ and then ‘View all Available Services’
Step 04: Now, search for the scheme and click on the scheme to proceed to fill out the application form.
Step 05: Enter Parivar Pehchan Patra number Family ID and Click on “Click here to Fetch Family Data” which displays the family members registered under the given Family ID.
Step 06: Select the beneficiary/applicant name and enter the OTP that is being sent to the selected family member for verification. Click on “Click to Verify”
Step 07: Fill in all the mandatory details and upload all the mandatory documents.
Step 08: Preview the application form and click on ‘Submit’. For more information, please refer to: Official Website: https://hrylabour.gov.in/welfare/users/schemeDetailFront/91 Scheme Details: https://kms.saralharyana.nic.in/ViewDoc?Id=y2e7t1DDpKyNore+FD5aCQ%3d%3d Antyodaya-SARAL Portal: https://saralharyana.gov.in/ Tags associated with the scheme include: Death, Dependent, Financial Assistance, Widow, Worker.