The name of this welfare scheme is Rajiv Gandhi National Fellowship For Scheduled Caste Candidates. It is also known as RGNFSCC. INTRODUCTION
The Rajiv Gandhi National Fellowship (RGNF) Scheme for Scheduled Caste is formulated and funded by the Ministry of Social Justice &amp;Empowerment. The scheme is open to candidates who belong to Scheduled Caste and are pursuing higher studies such as regular and full-time M.Phil.and Ph.D.degrees in Sciences, Humanities, Social Sciences, and Engineering &amp; Technology. There are 2000 slots for Scheduled Caste every year for all the subjects. 3% fellowships are reserved for Persons with Disabilities candidates belonging to SC categories as per the provision laid down by the Government of India.


OBJECTIVE
The objective of the scheme is to provide five-year fellowships in the form of financial assistance to students from SC categories, as notified by the Central Government to pursue higher studies such as M.Phil. and Ph.D. at Indian Universities/Institutions/Colleges as indicated below: 
i. Universities/Institutions/Colleges included under sections 2(f) and 12(B) of UGC Act.
ii. Deemed to be Universities included under Section 3 of the UGC Act, 1956 
and eligible to receive grants-in-aid from UGC.
iii. Universities/Institutions/Colleges funded by Central/State Government 
iv. Institutes of National Importance. The scheme targets beneficiaries such as Individual. The implementing agency is University Grants Commission (UGC). Additionally, the nodal ministry is Ministry of Education and the nodal department is Department Of Higher Education.

It falls under the categories: Education & Learning.

Eligibility criteria include: TARGET GROUP
The candidates belonging to one of the SC categories who have passed the postgraduation examination in the concerned subject and who are pursuing fulltime research without JRF of UGCNET or UGCCSIR NET.


ELIGIBILITY
A candidate has to fulfill the following conditions to be eligible for the award of this fellowship:
i. The candidate should belong to SC/ST and should have passed the Post Graduate Examination.
ii. The Candidate must be registered for M.Phil./Ph.D.
iii. Transgender candidates are eligible to apply under the scheme. The reservation shall be followed as per the government of India norms For more information, please refer to: Guidelines: https://www.ugc.ac.in/pdfnews/1565505_RGNF-SC-Revised.pdf Tags associated with the scheme include: Fellowship, Scheduled Caste.