The name of this welfare scheme is Government Institute for the Mentally Retarded - Tamil Nadu. It is also known as GIFTMRC. The &#39;Government Institute for the Mentally Retarded,Chennai&#39; scheme was launched by the Department for the Welfare of Differently Abled Persons, Government of Tamil Nadu. Under this scheme, children with intellectual disability are given special education, vocational training, food, uniforms, boarding, medicine, and lodging facilities. The children are also imparted training in daily living skills. The scheme targets beneficiaries such as Individual. It is specifically implemented in Tamil Nadu. Additionally, the nodal department is Welfare of Differently Abled Persons Department.

The scheme provides the following benefits: The children are also imparted training in daily living skills and below benefits are provided to children with intellectual disability :

Special education, 
Vocational training, 
Food, 
Uniforms, 
Boarding, 
Medicine, 
Lodging facilities.

Eligibility criteria include: The child should have an intellectual disability. 
The age of the child should be between 4 to 18 years. The application process is as follows: Step 1: The interested applicant should visit (during office hours) the District Differently Abled Welfare Officer/Project Officer/Government Institute for Mentally Retarded and request a hard copy of the prescribed format of the application form from the staff exclusively entrusted to issue and collect filledin applications.
Step 2: In the application form, fill in all the mandatory fields, and attach copies of all the mandatory documents (selfattest, if required).
Step 3: Submit the duly filled and signed application form along with the documents to the Project Officer/Government Institute for Mentally Retarded.
Step 4: Request a receipt or acknowledgment from the concerned authority to whom the application has been submitted. Ensure that the receipt contains essential details such as the date and time of submission, and a unique identification number (if applicable). For more information, please refer to: Citizen's Charter (2022): https://cms.tn.gov.in/sites/default/files/documents/wda_e_cc_2022_23.pdf Tags associated with the scheme include: Disabilitiy, Education, Medicine, Mentally Retarded.