The name of this welfare scheme is Advance For Purchase Or Construction Of House (APB&OCWWB). It is also known as APCHAPB&OCWWB. The scheme “Advance for Purchase or Construction of House” was started by the Department of Labour and Employment, Govt. of Arunachal Pradesh for registered workers of Arunachal Pradesh Building &amp;amp; Other Construction Workers Welfare Board (APB&amp;amp;OCWWB). The state government has formulated this scheme to implement through the APB&amp;amp;OCWWB in which the board can sanction/ grant an amount for the outright purchase of a house or for the construction of a house to the eligible building and construction workers. The scheme targets beneficiaries such as Individual. It is specifically implemented in Arunachal Pradesh. The implementing agency is Registered Office, APB&OCWWB Of Respective District Of Arunachal Pradesh. Additionally, the nodal department is Labour and Employment Department.

The scheme provides the following benefits: Under this scheme, cash assistance of ₹00 lakh is to be given to the registered workers.

Eligibility criteria include: The applicant should be a permanent resident of Arunachal Pradesh.
The applicant must be employed in the Building and Other Construction works.
The applicant should be registered with Labour Welfare Board (APB&amp;amp;OCWWB).
The applicant should be an active registered worker with a membership for at least 5 years.
The applicant should have at least 15 years of service before superannuation/ retirement.
The applicant must be able to repay the principal amount of the loan with a minimum interest rate or with interest in equal installments as may be fixed by the board. The application process is as follows: Step 01: For taking benefit of this scheme, the applicant needs to contact Registering Officers, APB&amp;amp;OCWWB of the respective District.
Step 02: Application in the prescribed format may be received from the concerned office.
Step 03: The applicant needs to fill the application form completely and attach all the relevant documents. Thereafter, the applicant may submit the application form to the concerned office.
Step 04: After successful verification, the applicant can avail the benefit of the scheme. For more information, please refer to: Website: https://tawang.nic.in/labour-welfare-board/ Guideline: https://ahvdd.arunachal.gov.in/pdf/eBook/Government%20Scheme%20Handbook.pdf Tags associated with the scheme include: Construction, Construction Worker, Financial Assistance, House, Purchase.