The name of this welfare scheme is Braille Watches by Welfare of Differently Abled Persons Department. It is also known as BWBWODAPD. The &#39;Braille Watches by Welfare of Differently Abled Persons Department&#39; scheme was launched by the Department for the Welfare of Differently Abled Persons, Government of Tamil Nadu. Under this scheme, braille watches are distributed to working visually impaired persons to enable them to reach the workplace on time. The applications are accepted offline in the prescribed form available at the District Differently Abled Welfare Office. The scheme targets beneficiaries such as Individual. It is specifically implemented in Tamil Nadu. Additionally, the nodal department is Welfare of Differently Abled Persons Department.

The scheme provides the following benefits: Free distribution of braille watches.

Eligibility criteria include: The applicant should be a visually impaired working person. 
The applicant should be working in the unorganized sectors. 
The applicant should be any one of the following:



  Employee.
  SelfEmployed. The application process is as follows: Step 1: The interested applicant should visit (during office hours) the District Differently Abled Welfare Officer and request a hard copy of the prescribed format of the application form from the staff exclusively entrusted to issue and collect filledin applications.
Step 2: In the application form, fill in all the mandatory fields, and attach copies of all the mandatory documents (selfattest, if required).
Step 3: Submit the duly filled and signed application form along with the documents to the District Differently Abled Welfare Officer.
Step 4: Request a receipt or acknowledgment from the District Differently Abled Welfare Officer to whom the application has been submitted. Ensure that the receipt contains essential details such as the date and time of submission, and a unique identification number (if applicable). For more information, please refer to: Citizen's Charter (2022): https://cms.tn.gov.in/sites/default/files/documents/wda_e_cc_2022_23.pdf Tags associated with the scheme include: Braille Watches, Differently Abled Person, Employee, Social Welfare, Visually Challenged Person.