The name of this welfare scheme is Mukhyamantri Tirth Yatra Yojana - Delhi. It is also known as MTYYD. Details
Any resident of the national capital aged 60 or above can avail of the scheme after acquiring a certificate from a local MLA, stating that he lives in the legislator’s constituency. One attendant aged 21 or more can accompany each traveller. The government bears the expenses for the attendant too. The pilgrimage scheme had been halted due to COVID-19, but now it will be resuming. The “Mukhyamantri Tirth Yatra Yojna” was approved by the Delhi Cabinet on January 9, 2018. All expenses related to travel, food and accommodation are borne by the Delhi government.
A total of 1,100 residents per assembly constituency can avail this facility in a year subject to the cap of total 77,000 residents per year. Since its formal launch, 38,000 beneficiaries (senior citizens) have travelled under the scheme, the statement added.
Delhi Govt Tirth Yatra Online Registration form can be filled through e-district portal and anyone must not submit any manual application. For Delhi Govt Tirth Yatra Yojna, counters of SDM office, office of Tirth Vikas Samiti and MLA offices would serve as facilitation counters. Interested candidates can now apply online for Mukhyamantri Tirth Yatra Yojana 2023 at the official website for 1st trip to pilgrims.
&lt;br&gt; The scheme targets beneficiaries such as Individual. It is specifically implemented in Delhi. Additionally, the nodal department is Transport Department.

It falls under the categories: Travel & Tourism.

Eligibility criteria include: Eligibility 

The applicant/spouse must be a resident of the territorial jurisdiction of the NCT of Delhi.
The applicant must have completed 60 years of age (As of 1st January of the year in which the Application for availing the Yojana is submitted).
The applicant/spouse must NOT be employed with Central/State Government or Local/Autonomous bodies.
The applicant/spouse must NOT have ever availed of the scheme in the past.
The age of the attendant must be more than 21 years(In case opting for attendant). For more information, please refer to: Guidelines: https://edistrict.delhigovt.nic.in/eDownload/Eligibility/Guideline_9095.pdf Tags associated with the scheme include: Delhi, Tirth Yatra, Tourism, Travel.