The name of this welfare scheme is Shramyogi Cycle Subsidy Scheme- Gujarat Labour Welfare Board. It is also known as SCSS-GLWB. The “Shramyogi Cycle Subsidy Scheme” is implemented by the Gujarat Labour Welfare Board, Labour, Skill Development &amp;amp; Employment Department, Government of Gujarat. The objective of the scheme is to provide a subsidy for the purchase of a bicycle to laborers working in the organized sector, enabling them to commute between their residence and workplace. The scheme targets beneficiaries such as Individual. It is specifically implemented in Gujarat. The implementing agency is Gujarat Labour Welfare Board. Additionally, the nodal department is Labour and Employment Department.

The scheme provides the following benefits: Under the scheme, laborers will receive assistance of ₹1,500/as a subsidy towards the purchase of a bicycle.

Eligibility criteria include: Labourers (Shramyogi) should be employed for the last one year in a factory/institute in the state of Gujarat.
   Labourers who have been regularly contributing to the Labour Welfare Fund will be eligible for this scheme.
   Assistance will be given only on the newly purchased cycle.
   Application has to be made within 6 (six) months from the date mentioned in the bicycle purchase bill.
   This scheme can be availed only once during the employment period.

Note 01: The bicycle should have a valid bill of purchase. Bill should have the name of the beneficiary, the shopkeeper&amp;#39;s GST number, cycle chassis number, chassis should not be less than 22 inches. In case of a bill with incomplete details, assistance amount will not be given.
Note 02: The final decision regarding assistance will be with the Welfare Commissioner in Ahmedabad, ensuring justice in the field. The application process is as follows: > Application Process for Scheme Benefit:

Step 01: The applicant may visit the Sanman Portal: https://sanman.gujarat.gov.in/
Step 02: On the home page, under the tab ‘Citizen Login’, click on ‘Please Register Here’.
Step 03: Enter your Aadhaar Card Number, select user type, and then enter your Labour Welfare Fund Account Number.
Step 04: Now, click on ‘Fetch’ &amp;amp; verify the details.
Step 05: Enter user details and Password.
Step 06: After successful registration, the applicants can login through their User ID and Password.
Step 07: Now, select the scheme and read the instructions carefully for the selected scheme.
Step 08: Fill out the application form and upload all the relevant documents.
Step 09: Agree with the Rules &amp;amp; Regulations and submit the application form. A confirmation email with the application Number will be sent on the registered email ID. For more information, please refer to: Official Website: https://glwb.gujarat.gov.in/shramyogi-cycle-subsidy-scheme.htm Sanman Portal: https://sanman.gujarat.gov.in/Home/GLWBScheme# Tags associated with the scheme include: Bicycle, Cycle, Labour, Shramyogi, Subsidy, Worker.