The name of this welfare scheme is NPC Students Internship Program. It is also known as NPCSIP. The National Productivity Council (NPC) of the Department of Industrial Policy &amp;amp; Promotion Ministry of Commerce &amp;amp; Industry provides internship training to students pursuing graduation and post-graduation. The interns shall be given exposure to related interventions being activities undertaken by NPC’s which will provide opportunities to learn and implement new concepts as well as develop new skills and gain a deeper understanding of IT-enabled interventions through the hands-on application of the knowledge students learned during their course curriculum.
&lt;br&gt;

&gt; Areas

Industrial Engineering (IE), Environment Management(EN), Energy Management(EM), Agribusiness Services(AB), Economic Services(ES), Information Technology (IT) and Advanced Manufacturing &amp;amp; Industry 4.0.
&lt;br&gt;

&gt; Duration


   1. The internship duration shall be for a period of two months.
   1. The internship program shall be effective from the first week of June.
   1. The internship period may be extendable, if required, on an individual case-to-case basis for a further mutually agreed duration. The scheme targets beneficiaries such as Individual. The implementing agency is National Productivity Council (NPC). Additionally, the nodal ministry is Ministry Of Commerce And Industry and the nodal department is Department For Promotion Of Industry And Internal Trade.

The scheme provides the following benefits: > Certificate

The interns will be issued an internship completion certificate upon successful completion and submission of the full project report.


> Logistics &amp; Support

NPC shall provide them with working space with an internet facility and other necessities as deemed fit by the concerned reporting authorities.
NOTE: The Interns will be required to bring their own laptops.


> Boarding &amp; Lodging

The Interns will be required to make their own arrangements towards transportation.


> Remuneration

The selected interns shall not be entitled to any financial remuneration/stipend during their internship period. 
No payment towards a stipend, transportation etc. shall be paid to the interns by NPC.

Eligibility criteria include: The applicant should be a citizen of India.
The applicant should not already have applied for the internship before in the current financial year.
The applicant should be a student pursuing graduation and postgraduation studies.



##### Only for Interns in Information Technology (IT)
> Job Requirements


Strong editing, written and oral communication skills.
Strong interpersonal skills.
Proactive technical troubleshooting and problemsolving skills.
Knowledge and understanding of learning patterns and strong Research and networking for generating quality learning material.
Knowledge of current and emerging eLearning tools and applications.
Expertise in graphics creation for classroombased training, online training, and websites.

> Desired Skills


Proficiency in the Microsoft Office Suite (i.e. Word, Excel, Powerpoint, Outlook), Adobe Photoshop and/or Adobe In Design 
Proficient in graphic designing tools such as Adobe Photoshop, Corel Draw, Illustrator, Ink Shape &amp; related software knowledge
Proficient in programming, data/ content management, and website development with Java, .NET, JavaScript or HTML/DHTML. 
The overall work may also include leveraging leading technologies like SAS, Big Data, Hadoop, Hive, Pig, Python, SQL, Artificial Intelligence, Machine Learning, and Data Annotation Services. The application process is as follows: Step 1: The eligible and interested students should submit the duly filled and signed application form as per the prescribed format, along with the required documents (selfattested) to the college/institution. The Applicant should specifically mention the duration for which she/he wishes to undertake an internship.
Step 2: The college/institution should send the applications of interested applicants to Director (HRM), National Productivity Council, New Delhi 110003 For more information, please refer to: Guidelines: https://www.npcindia.gov.in/NPC/Uploads/pdf/notices/Notification%20for%20NPC%20Student%20Intership%20Form-dated%2007.04.202043380.pdf Tags associated with the scheme include: Industry, Internship, Postgraduation, Student.