The name of this welfare scheme is GROUP WORKSHED SCHEME . It is also known as GWS. The objective of the scheme is to facilitate the establishment of worksheds for shuttleless looms in an existing or new cluster, which will provide the required scale of economy for business operations.
To organize powerloom units in a cluster and to provide improved working conditions in terms of more space, work environment, improve work efficiency to enhance their competitiveness in the global market. 
ELIGIBLE BENEFICIARIES 

- State Government (or) its agency. 
- A registered Co-operative society.
- A Company set-up under the Companies Act, 1956 as amended (or) a firm set-up under the Limited Liability Partnership Act, 2008 as amended, by a group of powerloom owners (minimum of four beneficiaries).
- The local powerloom association. The scheme targets beneficiaries such as Government Organisation, Industries. Additionally, the nodal ministry is Ministry Of Textiles.

The scheme provides the following benefits: MAXIMUM ADMISSIBLE AREA 
Shuttleless Looms : 400 Sq.ft / Loom 
Weaving Preparatory : 40% of Loomage area 
Dormitory : 125 Sq.ft / Person 


SUBSIDY CHART 
S.No.CategoryEligible Subsidy on the unit cost of construction Cap on Subsidy per Sq.ft 1General40%₹ 4002SC75%₹ 7503ST90%₹ 900

Eligibility criteria include: The group will consist of at least 4 weavers/entrepreneurs having separate legal entities. 
At least 24 nos. of shuttleless looms of width up to 230 cms (or) 16 nos. of shuttleless looms of wider width i.e. 230 cms and above must be installed. 
Each beneficiary should have at least 4 looms. 
Only TUFScompatible machineries are to be installed. The application process is as follows: The advertisement is published in newspapers. For more information, please refer to: Guidelines: chrome-extension://efaidnbmnnnibpcajpcglclefindmkaj/https://texmin.nic.in/sites/default/files/PowerTex%20India%20Brochure%20English.pdf Tags associated with the scheme include: Business Operations, New Cluster, Powerloom, Weaving.