The name of this welfare scheme is Financial Assistance for Marriage of Poor Scheduled Caste Brides. It is also known as FAMPSCB. The scheme “Financial Assistance for Marriage of Poor Scheduled Caste Brides” was introduced by the Adi Dravidar Welfare Department, Government of Puducherry. The objective of the scheme is to provide financial assistance to poor parents from Scheduled Castes for performing the marriage of their daughters. The financial assistance is given at the rate of ₹15,000/- in each case for the marriage of their two daughters. The scheme targets beneficiaries such as Individual. It is specifically implemented in Puducherry. Additionally, the nodal department is Adi Dravidar Welfare Department, Puducherry.

The scheme provides the following benefits: Financial Assistance of ₹15,000/in each case for the marriage of their two daughters.

Eligibility criteria include: The Parent/Guardian of the bride should be a citizen of India.
The Parent/Guardian of the bride should be from a Scheduled Caste.
The Parent/Guardian of the bride should be a native of Puducherry.
The assistance is provided for the first marriage alone.
The marriage should be registered.
The assistance is available only for two daughters in a family.
The application should be submitted 30 days prior to the date of marriage.
The annual income of the parent/guardian should not exceed ₹2,00,The applicant should not be receiving financial assistance from other sources.
The marriage should be performed in accordance with the law.
The bride should have attained the age of 18 years.
The bridegroom should have attained the age of 21 years. The application process is as follows: Step 1: Visit the Official Website of the eDistrict Portal of the Government of Puducherry.
Step 2: At the top right corner of the home page, click &quot;Login&quot;. In the login screen, click &quot;Register a New Membership&quot;.
Step 3: On the Registration Page, fill in all the mandatory fields: Username, Password, Confirm Password, Personal Details (Full Name, First Name, Email Address, Address, Current Address, Gender, Date of Birth, Mobile Number). Agree to the declaration. Fill in the Captcha Code, and click &quot;Signup&quot;.
Step 4: Visit the Official Website of the eDistrict Portal of the Government of Puducherry.
Step 5: At the top right corner of the home page, click &quot;Login&quot;. In the login screen, provide your Username and Password, fill in the Captcha Code, and click &quot;Sign In&quot;.
Step 6: On the next screen, a list of schemes by the Government of Puducherry will be displayed Departmentwise.
Step 7: Click on the scheme you wish to apply for. You will be taken to its online application form.
Step 8: In the application form, fill in all the mandatory fields (marked with a red asterisk) and upload all the mandatory documents (selfattest if required). 
Step 9: Tick the declaration stating &quot;I hereby declare that the abovementioned details are true and correct as per the best of my Knowledge&quot;. Submit the application and note the application number for tracking your application. The application number will also be received on your Registered Mobile Number / Registered Email ID.
Track Your Application here
 Access the User Manual for Online Application here For more information, please refer to: Guidelines: https://adwelfare.py.gov.in/financial-assistance-marriage-poor-sc-brides Citizen's Charter: https://py.gov.in/sites/default/files/citizencharter-adidravidar.pdf Contact Us: https://adwelfare.py.gov.in/contact-us Track Your Application: https://edistrict.py.gov.in/User/TrackApplication.aspx Tags associated with the scheme include: Bride, Financial Assistance, Marriage, SC, Scheduled Caste.