The name of this welfare scheme is Post Graduate Scholarship for GATE/GPAT Qualified Students for Pursuing M.Tech/M.E./M.Pharm-UGC . It is also known as PGSGATE/GPATQSPMT/ME/MPUGC. University Grants Commission is implementing the scheme of Post Graduate Scholarship for GATE/GPAT Qualified Students for Pursuing M.Tech/M.E./M.Pharm courses (including integrated dual degree courses).
&gt; Objective:

The objective of the scheme is to help and attract young and talented graduate students to pursue education at the Post Graduate Level in Higher Education Institutions. The scheme targets beneficiaries such as Individual. The implementing agency is University Grants Commission, Government Of India. Additionally, the nodal ministry is Ministry of Education and the nodal department is Department Of Higher Education.

The scheme provides the following benefits: The Scholarship under the scheme is ₹12,400/per month per student.
An annual contingency of ₹5,000/will be given to the eligible student. 
Note 01: If a student scores below 60% in any semester he/she shall be paid a scholarship @ ₹1,550/in that particular semester, if the student reappear for the same semester and scores above 60 %, he will be entitled to get regular scholarship i.e. @ ₹12,400/p.m. for that semester in which student reappeared. But thereafter after he is eligible for the full scholarship amount, in the next semesters.
Note 02: The contingency grant sanctioned will be reimbursed to the scholar on the actual expenditure incurred by him/her on the admissible items within the limit. The books and nonconsumable items purchased or acquired, out of the contingency grant, will be the property of the concerned university or the institution and the scholars have to return the same at the end of the programme i.e. post graduate and research work to the concerned institution.
Note 03: No house rent is admissible to M.E./M.Tech./M.Pharm. students.
Note 04: The scholar shall not undertake any paid assignment (emoluments/salary/stipend) during the tenure of the scholarship.
Note 05: It will be obligatory on the part of every post graduate student to undertake 8 to 10 hours (per week) of work related to teaching and research activities as assigned to him/her by the institute. This includes tutorials, laboratory classes, development and maintenance of laboratories, assistance in research and activities undertaken by faculty members, maintenance and operation of computer and other central facilities, assistance in library, etc.
Note 06: Scholarship shall be terminated immediately if the scholar has failed in any semester. It will be the responsibility of the University to take action in this matter.

Eligibility criteria include: The GATE/GPAT qualified students who have taken admission in M.E/M.Tech/M.Pharm courses and integrated dual degree programme in Central, State, Deemed, and Private Universities will be provided scholarships by UGC.
   The students must be admitted as fulltime scholars.

Note 01: The Government of India policy for SC/ST/OBC/PH is to be followed strictly. If, in any case, no student is available under the reserved seats then those seats may be treated as lapsed in that batch. The application process is as follows: > Procedure for Applying for the Scheme:

After taking admission by the GATE/GPAT Qualified student, the University needs to submit the online claim for the first semester on the UGC online portal available at www.ugc.ac.in in the prescribed proforma and also upload the undertaking and GATE/GPAT Score Card of the M.E/M.Tech/M.Pharm within the approved intake by AICTE/UGC in the batch in a year early mentioning the category of student i.e. General, SC &amp;amp; ST.
Note: Note: The university/ Institution should also certify that the claim for the scholarship amount is submitted to UGC only and University/Institution is not claiming from AICTE or any other source.
&gt; The UGC Scholarship is being disbursed through CANARABANK UGC Portal. The steps to be followed for registering the scholar in the Scholar’s Corner are mentioned below.

Step 01: The Scholar may visit the link https://scholarship.canarabank.in/scholar/Login.aspx
Step 02: Click the Registration Button, and enter your details correctly i.e. scheme name and student ID (The Student ID as registered with the University under the UGC Portal), DOB and email (The mail ID that has been registered with the University in the UGC Portal.)
Step 03: After entering the data, click the Register Button and save the data. The message will come as “Registration Successful”.
Step 04: The password will be sent to the registered mail id. Check the registered Email ID for the password.
Step 05: GOTO page https://scholarship.canarabank.in/scholar/Login.aspx, enter the email address and the password that has been received in the mail. Login and Change the password
Step 06: After setting the new password, LOGIN again with the email ID and New Password to view the scholar&amp;#39;s profile.
&gt; Facilities in the “SCHOLAR’S CORNER”

On Logging In, you will be directed to the Home Page where the following details will be displayed.
•	Name of the Scholar
•	Student ID
•	Account/IFSC (Only last 4 digits of account no: will be shown along with IFSC)
•	Beneficiary Code along with status (accepted/rejected)
•	Paid Details
The total payment schedule for the scholar is available under the tab PAYMENT SCHEDULE. The status of each payment is also mentioned here.
&gt; Procedure for Approval By UGC:

The University Grants Commission shall send the admissible scholarship grant against the claim submitted by the University to the beneficiaries through Direct Benefit Transfer (DBT).
&gt; Procedure of Release of Grant by UGC:


  UGC will release the firstsemester scholarship on a 100% basis to eligible students.
  Scholarship towards the second, third and fourth semesters will be released on the receipt of subsequent claims, the result of the first, second, and third semesters along with the grant released towards the previous semester.
  Result for subsequent semesters has to be given in percentage converted from CGPA in the cases where CGPA is being awarded to the students.
  If the University does not hold any examination in the third and fourth semesters, instead a project work is taken up by the students, the University may submit disciplinewise satisfactory reports of the students.
  The semesterwise grant will be restricted to 6 months per semester.
  After completion of the course a copy of the degree awarded is required to be submitted to the UGC designated agency.

Note: The approved Agency may verify the genuineness of records before disbursal of funds. For more information, please refer to: Official Website: https://www.ugc.gov.in/Stu_Sch_2.aspx Guidelines: https://www.ugc.gov.in/pdfnews/2653723_gate-scholarship-(26.07).pdf CANARABANK UGC Portal: https://scholarship.canarabank.in/scholar/Registration.aspx Tags associated with the scheme include: GATE, GPAT, Post Graduate, Scholarship, Student, UGC.