The name of this welfare scheme is Early Intervention Centre for the Visually Impaired. It is also known as EICFTVI. The &quot;Early Intervention Centre for the Visually Impaired&quot; was launched by the Department for the Welfare of Differently Abled Persons, Government of Tamil Nadu. Under this scheme, visually impaired children are identified, assessed and prepared to join main stream education. Early intervention centre for the visually impaired has been established in 6 Districts Chennai, Coimbatore, Cuddalore, Thiruchirapalli, Thiruvannamalai and Vellore. The scheme targets beneficiaries such as Individual. It is specifically implemented in Tamil Nadu. Additionally, the nodal department is Welfare of Differently Abled Persons Department.

The scheme provides the following benefits: Early Intervention Centre identified the visually impaired children to join main stream education.

Eligibility criteria include: The beneficiary child should be visually impaired.
The beneficiary child&#39;s age should be 6 years or below. The application process is as follows: Step 1: The parents/guardian should visit (during office hours) the District Differently Abled Welfare Officer and request a hard copy of the prescribed format of the application form from the staff exclusively entrusted to issue and collect filledin applications.
Step 2: In the application form, fill in all the mandatory fields, and attach copies of all the mandatory documents (selfattest, if required).
Step 3: Submit the duly filled and signed application form along with the documents to the District Differently Abled Welfare Officer.
Step 4: Request a receipt or acknowledgment from the District Differently Abled Welfare Officer to whom the application has been submitted. Ensure that the receipt contains essential details such as the date and time of submission, and a unique identification number (if applicable). For more information, please refer to: Citizen's Charter (2022): https://cms.tn.gov.in/sites/default/files/documents/wda_e_cc_2022_23.pdf Tags associated with the scheme include: Differently Abled Person, Education, Social Welfare, Visually Impaired.