The name of this welfare scheme is Saphalam Scheme For Transgender Students Pursuing Professional Courses. It is also known as SSTSPPC. The “Saphalam Scheme for Transgender Students Pursuing Professional Courses” was launched by the Department of Social Justice, Government of Kerala. The Transgender community faces severe problems such as discrimination and infringement of rights. It is the responsibility of the government to provide special privileges to such target groups, bringing them to the mainstream of society by ensuring social rehabilitation.
            Due to a lack of proper education and social stigma in society, the Transgender community is also subjected to severe unemployment. Thus, the Social Justice Department has rolled out this innovative scheme that provides financial assistance to Transgender students pursuing Degree/Diploma level professional courses. This scheme would provide an opening to Transgender students who possess high technical/professional competence.
          Those students who have qualified for such professional courses and suffer from financial constraints can continue their education uninterrupted which in turn would increase their employment opportunities and help them to secure a good job and thereby lead a quality life. The scheme targets beneficiaries such as Individual. It is specifically implemented in Kerala. The implementing agency is District Social Justice Office, Kerala. Additionally, the nodal department is Social Justice Department.

The scheme provides the following benefits: Under the scheme, financial assistance up to ₹1,00,000/per year will be provided to transgender students for pursuing professional courses at the degree/diploma level.

Eligibility criteria include: The applicant should be Transgender.
   The applicant should be a resident of Kerala.
   Transgender students who have secured admission in merit seats in Government, Aided/Selffinancing colleges are eligible under this scheme.
   Transgender students who secure admission for courses MBBS, Bachelor of Veterinary Science (BVSc), and BSc Agriculture in Government colleges are eligible.
   Transgender students pursuing Diploma level governmentaccredited courses are also eligible.
   Transgender students who have completed 18 years must submit a copy of their Transgender ID card.
   Those Transgender students who are below 18 years must submit a selfdeclaration statement duly certified by the Head of Institution/Parent. The application process is as follows: Registration Process:
Step 01: To avail of the benefits of the scheme, the applicant needs to visit SUNEETHIOnline Service Application Portal
Step 02: On the home page, click on “One time Registration”
Step 03: Fill in the details like Name, Email ID &amp;amp; Mobile Number and click on ‘Register’.
Step 04: The applicant needs to enter the verification code received on the mobile number and click on ‘Verify’.
Step 05: Now, a form will open to create the new profile, fill in all the mandatory details and click on ‘Register’.
Login/Application Process: 
Step 01: Once the registration process is completed, the applicant should visit SUNEETHIOnline Service Application Portal and click on “Citizen Login”.
Step 02: Enter the user name i.e. Mobile Number and Password and click on “Sign in”.
Step 03: Now, the applicant needs to update all their details i.e. Personal Information, Contact Details, Identity Cards &amp;amp; Bank Details by clicking on the &amp;#39;Edit&amp;#39; button.
Step 04: Once the applicant updated their profile successfully, the schemes will appear on the left side of the screen.
Step 05: Select the scheme and click on the “Apply Now” button.
Step 06: Fill in all the mandatory details in the application form and click on the ‘Submit’ button. Step 01: To avail of the benefits of the scheme, the applicants need to visit the official website of the Social Justice Department, Government of Kerala, and download the application form.
Step 02: The applicants need to fill out the application form completely.
Step 03: The duly filled application along with supporting documents has to be submitted to the concerned District Social Justice Officer. For more information, please refer to: Official Website: http://sjd.kerala.gov.in/scheme-info.php?scheme_id=IDE3MXNWOHVxUiN2eQ== Application Form: http://sjd.kerala.gov.in/DOCUMENTS/Downloadables/Application%20Forms/31398.pdf Order/Notice: http://sjd.kerala.gov.in/DOCUMENTS/Order_new/GOs/31400.pdf Tags associated with the scheme include: Education, Financial Assistance, Professional Courses, Student, Transgender.