The name of this welfare scheme is National Scheme Of Incentive To Girls For Secondary Education. It is also known as NSIGSE. The National Scheme of Incentive to Girls for Secondary Education promotes the girl child&#39;s enrolment of 14-18 years age group at secondary stage, who passes class 8th and subsequently drops out for various socio-economic reasons. The proposed scheme is further intended to retain such girl children up to class 12th. In the year 2004-05, the dropout rate of girls from classes 1st to 8th was about 50.8%. For classes 1st to 10th the dropout rate of girls was about 64% in the same year. Hence, only 36% of the country&#39;s girl students could be retained up to class 10th. This is the combined result of several socio-economic factors, but a major contributor is no doubt the inability of the parents to afford the cost of education of the girl child. The scheme targets beneficiaries such as Individual. The implementing agency is State Governments, Local Bodies And Aided Private Schools And Panchayati Raj Institutions. Additionally, the nodal ministry is Ministry of Education and the nodal department is Department of School Education and Literacy.

The scheme provides the following benefits: A sum of ₹3000/(Rupees three thousand only) would be deposited under term deposit/ fixed deposit in a public sector bank or in a post office in the name of every eligible girl child. The term/ period of the deposit may be counted from the date of deposit to the date on which the girl child attains the age of 18 years. No premature withdrawal will be allowed.

Eligibility criteria include: The applicant should be a girl child.                                                   
The applicant should be from Scheduled Caste / Scheduled Tribe SC/ST 
The applicant should have passed class 8th from Kasturba Gandhi Balika Vidhalayas (irrespective of whether they belong to Scheduled Castes or Tribes) 
The applicant should have enrolled for class 9th in State/UT Government, Governmentaided, or local body schools in the academic year 200809 onwards. The application process is as follows: &gt; New Registration:

Step 1: Visit the Registration page of the National Scholarships Portal.
Step 2: Guidelines for Registration will appear. Scroll to the bottom. Read carefully the undertaking. Accept the Terms. Click “Continue”.
Step 3: A Registration Form will appear. (The fields marked as  are compulsory). Fill in the details and click “Register”. Your Application ID and password will be displayed. The same will also be sent as an SMS to your registered mobile number.
&gt; Fresh Application:

Step 1: Visit the applicant Login page of the National Scholarships Portal Enter your Application ID and password.
Step 2: Type the Captcha and click “Login”.
Step 3: On the next screen, provide the OTP received on your registered mobile number. You will be directed to the Password Reset screen. Create a new password and confirm.
Step 4: Click “Submit”. You will be directed to the “Applicant’s Dashboard”.
Step 5: On the left pane, click “Application Form”. The fields marked as  are compulsory. Fill in the details and upload the documents. The verification of credentials of the students (caste, educational qualifications etc.) will be done through the DIGILOCKER facility of the MeitY, Govt. of India. 
Step 6: You can either click on “Save as Draft” to complete the application later. Else, click “Final Submit” to apply.
&gt; Track Payment Status:

The student can track their payment status from the template “Know Your Payment” in the Public Financial Management System (PFMS) Portal either by indicating their Aadhaar Number, Bank Account number or NSP Application ID. For more information, please refer to: Guidelines: https://scholarships.gov.in/public/schemeGuidelines/NSIGSEGuidelines.pdf Guidelines: https://dsel.education.gov.in/nsigse Tags associated with the scheme include: Education, Girl Child, Incentive, Pre-Matric.