The name of this welfare scheme is Behind the Ear Hearing Aids by Welfare of Differently Abled Persons. It is also known as BTEHABWODAP. The Department for the Welfare of Differently Abled Persons, Government of Tamil Nadu, launched a program offering Behind-the-Ear (BTE) hearing aids. This initiative aims to improve speech capabilities by encouraging students, self-employed individuals, and employed persons with hearing impairment to utilize hearing aids. The scheme targets beneficiaries such as Individual. It is specifically implemented in Tamil Nadu. Additionally, the nodal department is Welfare of Differently Abled Persons Department.

The scheme provides the following benefits: Free distribution of behind the ear hearing aids.

Eligibility criteria include: The beneficiary should be a hearingimpaired person.
The beneficiary should be studying 6th standard and above.
The beneficiary should be any one of the following:



  Student
  SelfEmployed  
  Employed Persons. The application process is as follows: Step 1: The interested applicant should visit (during office hours) the District Differently Abled Welfare Officer and request a hard copy of the prescribed format of the application form from the staff exclusively entrusted to issue and collect filledin applications.
Step 2: In the application form, fill in all the mandatory fields, and attach copies of all the mandatory documents (selfattest, if required).
Step 3: Submit the duly filled and signed application form along with the documents to the District Differently Abled Welfare Officer.
Step 4: Request a receipt or acknowledgment from the District Differently Abled Welfare Officer to whom the application has been submitted. Ensure that the receipt contains essential details such as the date and time of submission, and a unique identification number (if applicable). For more information, please refer to: Citizen's Charter (2022): https://cms.tn.gov.in/sites/default/files/documents/wda_e_cc_2022_23.pdf Tags associated with the scheme include: Hearing Aids, Person With Disability, Self-employed, Social Welfare, Student.