The name of this welfare scheme is Mukhyamantri Vidyarthi Pratibha Yojna. It is also known as MVPY. The objective of the scheme is to provide scholarships to the students studying in class 9th to 12th for enabling them to bear the expenses required for their studies,SC/ST/OBC students of class IX to XII of all Government/Aided/Recognized public schools affiliated to Directorate of Education/Kendriya Vidyalaya Sangathan/National Open School/Schools affiliated to NDMC/Delhi Cantonment Board, East Delhi Municipal Corporation, North Delhi Municipal Corporation and South Delhi Municipal Corporation The scheme targets beneficiaries such as Individual. It is specifically implemented in Delhi. Additionally, the nodal department is Social Welfare Department.

The scheme provides the following benefits: Amount of Assistance:

   IX to X Class : Rs. 5,000/Per annum
   XI to XII Class : Rs.10,000/Per annum.

Eligibility criteria include: The applicant should be a resident of GNCT of Delhi.
   There is a Minimum of 50% marks required for IX to X and 60% marks required for XI to XII Classes.
   Annual Income Limit – Criteria for annual family income Rs 8 Lacs at par annum with the EWS income limit, subject to exclusions notified by the Government of India. If the student scores 75% and above marks in the previous class, no income limit is applicable for SC/ST/OBC category.
   The applicant should upload a Caste Certificate (SC/ST/OBC) issued in the name of the student or his father’s name issued by the SDM/Deputy Commissioner (Revenue), GNCTD. However, the Domicile Certificate of Delhi from the Revenue Deptt. Will be entertained for the SC beneficiary only, if the caste certificate is issued by the outside state authority instead of the competent authority of Govt. of NCT of Delhi.
   Repeaters in a particular class will not be eligible for this scheme.
   Bank Account should be in the name of the student (a Joint Bank Account with parent/Guardian is also permissible), active and seeded with the Aadhaar no of the student. The application process is as follows: Applicants have to visit https://edistrict.delhigovt.nic.in/

   Under Citizen Corner click on New User
   Click on select the document – Aadhar or Voter ID
   Enter your Aadhar Card Number/Voter ID Card Number
   Type the Captcha in the box shown


  Citizen Registration Form will Open for registration 


   Fill up all fields including details of the Present Residential Address
   Enter Captcha, and Click on Continue.
   Login ID and Password will be received on the given mobile number/email address.
   Now Registration on the edistrict portal is complete


  Registration for Financial Assistance Services


   Click on Registered User Login
   Enter the given login ID and Password
   Enter Captcha and Click on Login
   Go to Main Page (Main Page) will open click on apply online.
   Drop Box apply for services will open – click
   A list of Departments providing online services shall open –
   Select Department of Social Welfare.
   Click on the scheme name to Apply.
   Check the BASIC/PERSONAL DETAILS FORM and click on Continue.
   The form will open fill up all required fields &amp; upload all required documents as per the requirement of the scheme selected.
   Then click next and upload a photograph
   Then click on finish.
   One OTP will be received on the registered mobile number.
   Enter OTP and Submit.
   Acknowledgement of successful submission shall be generated. For more information, please refer to: Guidelines: https://scstwelfare.delhi.gov.in/sites/default/files/scstwelfare/circulars-orders/mvpvy.pdf Tags associated with the scheme include: Education, Financial Assistance, Social Welfare, Student Finance.