The name of this welfare scheme is Post-Matric Scholarships for Scheduled Castes Students- Gujarat. It is also known as PMSSCS-G. The “Post-Matric Scholarships for Scheduled Castes Students” scheme was launched by the Department of Social Justice &amp;amp; Empowerment, Ministry of Social Justice &amp;amp; Empowerment, Government of India. The scheme is implemented by the Director, Scheduled Caste Welfare in the state of Gujarat. The scheme is centrally sponsored scheme and there will be a 60:40 sharing ratio between the Centre and States. The objective of the scheme is to appreciably increase the Gross Enrolment Ratio of SC students in higher education with a focus on those from the poorest households, by providing financial assistance at post-matriculation or postsecondary stage to enable them to complete their education. The scheme targets beneficiaries such as Individual. It is specifically implemented in Gujarat. The implementing agency is District Deputy Director (SCW) Office, Gujarat. Additionally, the nodal department is Social Justice and Empowerment Department.

The scheme provides the following benefits: > Academic allowance:

Sl. No.Category of courses Hostellers (Yearly in ₹)Day Scholars (Yearly in ₹)1Group 1: Degree and Post Graduate level professional courses1350070002Group 2: Other Professional Courses leading to Degree, Diploma, Certificate9500 65003Group 3: Graduate and Post Graduate courses not covered under Group 1 &amp;amp;amp;amp; Group 2600030004Group 4: All postmatriculation (Post Class X level) nondegree courses 40002500Note 1: 10% extra allowances shall be provided for Divyang students. (If the student is disabled then disability allowance is admissible.)
Note 2: Students pursuing C.A. /I.C.W.A. /C.S. /I.C.F.A. shall be treated as day scholars for the purpose of academic allowance. Students studying through correspondence/online courses shall not be eligible for academic allowance.

Eligibility criteria include: The student should belong to the Scheduled Caste Category of Gujarat.
   The students who have passed the Matriculation or Higher Secondary or any higher examination of a recognized University or Board of Secondary Education will be eligible.
   Scholarships will be paid to the students whose parents/guardians&amp;#39; income from all sources does not exceed ₹2,50,000/during the last Financial Year.
   Candidates who, after passing one stage of education are studying in the same stage of education in a different subject e.g. Intermediate Science after Intermediate Arts or B.Com after B.A. or M.A in one subject after M.A in other subjects will not be eligible.
   Students, who pursue their studies through correspondence/online courses, are also eligible. The term correspondence includes distance and continuous education for courses in Central/ State Universities only. Nonrefundable fees shall be paid and no academic allowance will be paid.
   All the children of any parent/guardian will be entitled to receive the benefits of the scheme.
   A scholarship holder under this scheme will not hold any other scholarship/stipend.
   If awarded any other scholarship/stipend, the student can exercise his/her option for either of the two scholarships/stipends, whichever is more beneficial to him/her, and should inform the awarding authority through the Head of the Institution about the option made. No scholarship will be paid to the students under this scheme from the date he/she accepts another scholarship/stipend. The student can, however, accept free lodging or a grant or adhoc monetary help from the State Government or any other source for the purchase of books, equipment, or for meeting the expenses on board and lodging in addition to the scholarship amount paid under this scheme.
   All seats filled through arbitrary and nontransparent processes (including management quota, NRI quota, spot admissions, etc.) without following the merit criteria as decided by the State Government are not eligible for these scholarships.

&gt; Duration and Renewal of Awards


   The award once made will be payable up to the completion of the course subject to satisfactory academic performance and attendance of 75% in every academic year. The attendance will be verified through an Aadhaarbased attendance System.
   If a scholar is unable to appear in the annual examination owing to illness, the award may be renewed subject to the production of a medical certificate from a prescribed authority and acceptance of the same by the institution/college.
   If, according to the Regulations of a University/Institution, a student is promoted to the next higher class even though he/she may not have actually passed in the lower class and is required to take an examination of the junior class again after some time, he/she will be entitled to scholarship for the class to which he/she is promoted if the student is otherwise eligible for scholarship. Further, in case a student fails in any class and then again joins the same class as a regular student, he/she will be eligible for a scholarship for one additional year or the actual period, whichever is lower. The application process is as follows: &gt; Application Process:

Step 01: The applicant may visit the Digital Gujarat Portal: https://www.digitalgujarat.gov.in/
Step 02: On the home page, click on ‘Register’ and the applicant will be redirected to the registration form page.
Step 03: Enter your Mobile Number, Email, Set Password, and then click on ‘Save’.
Step 04: After successful registration, the applicant can login through his/her User Name (Mobile No./Email ID) and Password.
Step 05: Now, click on ‘My Profile’ to update your profile and fill in all the mandatory information.
Step 06: After filling in profile details, click on ‘Update Profile’. The profile will be updated after entering the verification Code (OTP).
Step 07: Now under services, select ‘Scholarship Services’ and then click on ‘SC Scheme’.
Step 08: Select the Financial Year for which you want to apply for and then click on ‘Change Financial Year’.
Step 09: Select the scheme, read the interaction carefully, and then click on ‘Continue to Service’.
Step 10: Fill in the application form completely and upload all the relevant documents.
Step 11: Now, click on ‘Save as Draft’ and agree with the terms &amp;amp; conditions, and submit the application form by clicking on ‘Confirm &amp;amp; Final Submit’. 
&gt; Instructions: 

Note 01: Photo uploading for all applicants is mandatory.
Note 02: Application will be considered complete only when all sections are completed.
Note 03: Only one application per applicant will be acceptable for a scholarship. If any student submits more than one application either from a single institute or from multiple institutions his/her all applications will be rejected by the competent authority and no request from any side will be entertained.
Note 04: In case of any wrong/misleading information provided in the application shall lead to rejection of the application by Department Authorities.
Note 05: All required documents must be carefully scanned as per the instructions given.
Note 06: The student has to fill his/her application carefully as there is no provision for institution change once the application is submitted successfully.
Note 07: The unreadable uploaded documents will allow the competent authority to reject the student application.
Note 08: Direct Individual submission of this application form will not be accepted in case of students studying inside the state. Only outside students have to fill out their form online and submit his/her application form to their native district officer.
User ManualEnglish
User ManualGujarati For more information, please refer to: Guidelines: https://sje.gujarat.gov.in/dscw/assets/downloads/gr6_dscw_sje_02092022.pdf Official Website: https://sje.gujarat.gov.in/dscw/schemes/1521?lang=English Digital Gujarat Portal: https://www.digitalgujarat.gov.in/ Tags associated with the scheme include: Post-Matric, SC, Scheduled Caste, Scholarship, Student.