The name of this welfare scheme is Supply of Invalid Carriages (Motorized Tri-cycles) to the Persons With Disabilities. It is also known as SICMTCPD. The scheme “Supply of Invalid Carriages (Motorized Tri-cycles) to the Persons With Disabilities” by the Department of Social Welfare, Government of Puducherry is introduced to supply invalid carriages (motorised tricycles) free of cost to the differently abled persons who are engaged in gainful employment or who are pursuing higher / professional / technical education. The scheme targets beneficiaries such as Individual. It is specifically implemented in Puducherry. Additionally, the nodal department is Social Welfare Department, Puducherry.

The scheme provides the following benefits: Invalid carriages (Motorized Tricycles) are provided free of cost to the persons with disabilities.

Eligibility criteria include: The applicant should be a Native/Resident of the Union Territory of Puducherry for at least 5 years.
The annual income of the applicant should not exceed ₹ 75,000/per annum.
The applicant should have a locomotor disability affecting lower limbs to a degree not less than 65%.
The applicant should be certified by the Medical Authority that he/she is fit for operating the invalid carriage (motor tricycle).
The applicant should not be in receipt of transport allowance for conveyance from the Department or any other source.
The applicant should be in gainful employment or pursuing higher studies. The application process is as follows: Step 1: The interested applicant should visit (during office hours) the Office/ SubOffice of the Department of Social Welfare, and request the hard copy of the prescribed format of the application form from the staff exclusively entrusted to issue and collect filledin applications.
OR
The interested applicant should take print of the prescribed format of the application form.
Step 2: In the application form, fill in all the mandatory fields, paste the passportsized photograph (signed across, if required), and attach copies of all the mandatory documents (selfattest, if required).
Step 3: Submit the duly filled and signed application form along with the documents to the authority given below Puducherry: The Deputy Director, Differently Abled Section, Directorate of Social Welfare. Karaikal: The Assistant Director, Social Welfare Department (Sub Office).Mahe / Yanam: The Welfare Officer (i\c), Social Welfare Department (Sub Office). 
Step 4: Request a receipt or acknowledgement from the concerned authority to whom the application has been submitted. Ensure that the receipt contains essential details such as the date and time of submission, and a unique identification number (if applicable). Step 1: Visit the Official Website of the eDistrict Portal of the Government of Puducherry.
Step 2: At the top right corner of the home page, click &quot;Login&quot;. In the login screen, click &quot;Register a New Membership&quot;.
Step 3: On the Registration Page, fill in all the mandatory fields: Username, Password, Confirm Password, Personal Details (Full Name, First Name, Email Address, Address, Current Address, Gender, Date of Birth, Mobile Number). Agree to the declaration. Fill in the Captcha Code, and click &quot;Signup&quot;.
Step 4: Visit the Official Website of the eDistrict Portal of the Government of Puducherry.
Step 5: At the top right corner of the home page, click &quot;Login&quot;. In the login screen, provide your Username and Password, fill in the Captcha Code, and click &quot;Sign In&quot;.
Step 6: On the next screen, a list of schemes by the Government of Puducherry will be displayed Departmentwise.
Step 7: Click on the scheme you wish to apply for. You will be taken to its online application form.
Step 8: In the application form, fill in all the mandatory fields (marked with a red asterisk) and upload all the mandatory documents (selfattest if required). 
Step 9: Tick the declaration stating &quot;I hereby declare that the abovementioned details are true and correct as per the best of my Knowledge&quot;. Submit the application and note the application number for tracking your application. The application number will also be received on your Registered Mobile Number / Registered Email ID.
Track Your Application here
 Access the User Manual for Online Application here For more information, please refer to: Guidelines: https://socwelfare.py.gov.in/supply-invalid-carriages-morized-tri-cycles-persons-disabilities Citizen's Charter: https://socwelfare.py.gov.in/sites/default/files/citizen-charter.pdf Application Form: https://socwelfare.py.gov.in/sites/default/files/issue-motorized-tricycles-differently-abled-persons.pdf Contact Us: https://socwelfare.py.gov.in/contact-us Sub Offices: https://socwelfare.py.gov.in/sub--office-social-welfare-department Grievance Redressal: https://pgportal.gov.in/ Track Your Application: https://edistrict.py.gov.in/User/TrackApplication.aspx Tags associated with the scheme include: Cycle, Disability, PwD, Transport, Vehicle.