The name of this welfare scheme is International Centre for Environment Audit and Sustainable Development (iCED). It is also known as ICEASD-ICED. The &quot;International Centre for Environment Audit and Sustainable Development (iCED)&quot; was launched by the  Indian Audit and Accounts Department, and the Comptroller and Auditor General of India. The iCED Internship Scheme offers a unique opportunity for students specializing in Ocean Science, Environmental Science, Environmental Management, Environment Audit, Environmental Economics, Environmental Law, Public Administration, Public Policy, Sustainable Development, Information Technology, Data Analytics, Architecture, Human Resource Management, Disaster Management, and related fields. This internship will focus on developing awareness about iCED’s work, with a particular emphasis on Blue Economy, Climate Change, and gender-related themes.


> Duration: 

The internship duration would be 2 months, which may be extended up to 6 months.


> Number of interns: 

Two interns from one Institution/University would be selected for internship. The scheme targets beneficiaries such as Individual. Additionally, the nodal ministry is Comptroller And Auditor General Of India and the nodal department is Indian Audit and Accounts Department.

The scheme provides the following benefits: > Token Remuneration:

Interns will receive a token remuneration of ₹10,000/per month to cover conveyance and daily needs. 
NOTE: If boarding and lodging are provided by iCED the remuneration will be reduced to ₹5000/per month.


> Certificate of Internship:

Certificate will be issued upon satisfactory completion of the internship, assignment submission, and evaluation by the competent authority at iCED.

Eligibility criteria include: Applicant must be an Indian national.
Applicant must be a Graduate or pursuing Post Graduate/Doctoral courses in one of the following fields

  Ocean Science
  Environmental Science
  Environment Management
  Environment Audit
  Environmental Economics
  Environmental Law
  Public Administration
  Public Policy
  Sustainable Development
  Information Technology
  Data Analytics
  Architecture
  Human Resource Management
  Disaster Management
  Other similar streams

Applicant must be studying at a University/Institution of National or International repute.
Those awarded “Junior Research Fellowship” by the University Grants Commission (UGC) for research in these subjects will be given preference.
If there are more applications than required, the screening of applicants will be done using an appropriate methodology. The application process is as follows: > Application procedure.

Step 01: The student downloads the prescribe format of the application form. 
Step 02: In the application form, fill in all the mandatory fields, and attach copies of all the mandatory documents (selfattest, if required).
Step 03: Student can email their applications in the prescribed format to: iced@cag.gov.in


NOTE: Application should be filled in by typing in the above Performa only. No other format will be accepted. Application filled by hand will not be accepted.


> Submission of Assignments:

Students must share their work and collected materials with iCED in a logically classified manner, including a paper on how iCED/IAAD can use the material. Due to the mentoring provided, intellectual property rights will rest with IA&amp;AD.


> Selection Procedure:

A Screening Committee, nominated by the DG, iCED, will scrutinize all applications. Final selection will be made by a Committee of Senior Officers, including the DG, iCED. For more information, please refer to: Guidelines: https://cag.gov.in/uploads/media/iced-internship-065cb2cf30d5458-66667337.pdf Tags associated with the scheme include: Internship, Post-Graduate, Remuneration, Student.