The name of this welfare scheme is Financial Assistance for Registered Fishermen Society. It is also known as FARFS. “Financial Assistance for Registered Fishermen Society” is a scheme by the Department of Fisheries, Government of Goa. Through this scheme, the fisheries co-operative societies/associations registered with the Fisheries Co-operative Societies, having more than 25 members, will be eligible for financial assistance to the extent of ₹50,000 as a grant-in-aid. The applications are accepted only in offline mode. The scheme targets beneficiaries such as Registered Societies. It is specifically implemented in Goa. Additionally, the nodal department is Fisheries Department.

The scheme provides the following benefits: Financial assistance to the extent of ₹50,000 as a grantinaid.

Eligibility criteria include: The applicant should be fisheries cooperative societies/associations registered with the Fisheries Cooperative Societies.
The society should produce an audited statement of accounts.
The society should employ at least one personnel for the maintenance of records.
The society&#39;s books of accounts shall be produced before department authorities for inspection when called for.
The society should have more than 25 members. The application process is as follows: Step 1: The interested applicant should request the prescribed format of the application form from the department.
Step 2: In the application form, fill in all the mandatory fields, paste the passportsized photograph (signed across, if required), and attach copies of all the mandatory documents (selfattest, if required).
Step 3: Submit the duly filled and signed application form along with the documents to the concerned authority at the Department of Fisheries, Dayanand Bandodkar Marg, Patto Colony, Panaji Goa 403 521, or to the official posted at BDO Office/ SubOffices of the Department of Fisheries.


> Grievance Redressal

Any dissatisfaction or complaint about any service or its standards can be registered with the Department&#39;s Grievance Redressal Officer. The grievance can also be lodged on the link dirfish.goa@nic.in. All complaints will be acknowledged by us and final action taken will be communicated within 30 days. For more information, please refer to: Citizen's Charter: https://fisheries.goa.gov.in/wp-content/uploads/2023/07/CitizenCharter-2.pdf Contact Us: https://fisheries.goa.gov.in/contact-us-2/# Tags associated with the scheme include: Financial Assistance, Fish, Fishermen, Grant, Society.