The name of this welfare scheme is Natural Death Relief - Telangana. It is also known as NDR-TBOCWWB. The &quot;Natural Death Relief - TBOCWWB&quot; scheme was launched by the Telangana Building &amp; Other Construction Workers Welfare Board, LET&amp;F (Labour) Department Telangana. The scheme aims to provide relief amount to the nominee, dependents, or legal heirs of a deceased worker ₹1,00,000/- in case of natural death. The scheme is effective from 01.05.2018 and aims to support the families of deceased workers with financial assistance to help cover funeral expenses and provide additional relief. The scheme targets beneficiaries such as Family, Individual. It is specifically implemented in Telangana. Additionally, the nodal department is Labour, Employment Training and Factories Department.

The scheme provides the following benefits: The relief amount ₹1,00,000/provided to the nominee, dependants, or legal heirs.

Eligibility criteria include: The applicant should be the nominee, dependent, or legal heir of the deceased construction worker.
The deceased should be a registered building and other construction workers with the Telangana Building and Other Construction Workers Welfare Board.
The death of the deceased worker must be due to natural death. The application process is as follows: Step1: The interested applicant visits the official website and clicks on &quot;Downloads&quot; at the top of menu options.
Step2: Now click on the download button corresponding to the scheme name.
Step3: In the application form, fill in all the mandatory fields, and attach copies of all the mandatory documents (selfattest, if required).
Step4: Submit the duly filled and signed application form along with the documents to the concerned officer in the labour department. 
Step5: Request a receipt or acknowledgment from the concerned authority to whom the application has been submitted. Ensure that the receipt contains essential details such as the date and time of submission, and a unique identification number (if applicable). For more information, please refer to: Guidelines: https://tbocwwb.telangana.gov.in/newsite/pdf_files/2018LETF_MS29.pdf List Of Schemes: https://tbocwwb.telangana.gov.in/new_gos.html Tags associated with the scheme include: Construction Worker, Financial Assistance, Natural Death.