The name of this welfare scheme is Saansad Adarsh Gram Yojana. It is also known as SAGY. > Introduction

Saansad Adarsh Gram Yojana (SAGY) was launched on 11th October 2014 with the aim to translate the comprehensive vision of Mahatma Gandhi about an ideal Indian village into reality, keeping in view the present context. Under SAGY, each Member of Parliament adopts a Gram Panchayat and guides its holistic progress giving importance to social development at par with infrastructure. The &#39;Adarsh Grams&#39; are to become schools of local development and governance, inspiring other Gram Panchayats. By involving villagers and leveraging scientific tools, a village development plan is prepared under the leadership of a Member of Parliament. The distinct feature of this Yojana is that it is: Demand Driven, Inspired by Society, and Based on People&#39;s Participation.


> Objectives

To trigger processes that lead to the holistic development of the identified Gram Panchayats
To substantially improve the standard of living and quality of life of all sections of the population through -
Improved basic amenities, Higher productivity, Enhanced human development, Better livelihood opportunity, Reduced disparities, Access to rights and entitlements, Wider social mobilization, Enriched social capital
To generate models of local level development and effective local government which can motivate and inspire neighboring, Gram Panchayats to learn and adapt.
To nurture the identified Adarsh Grams as schools of local development to train other gram panchayats


> Values

Far beyond mere infrastructure development, SAGY aims at instilling specific values in the villages and their people so that they get transformed into models for others. These values include:
1.  Adopting people’s participation as an end in itself – ensuring the involvement of all sections of society in all aspects related to the life of the village, especially in decision-making related to governance
2.  Adhering to Antyodaya – enabling the “poorest and the weakest person” in the village to achieve well-being 
3.  Affirming gender equality and ensuring respect for women
4.  Guaranteeing social justice
5.  Installing dignity of labor and the spirit of community service and voluntarism
6.  Promoting a culture of cleanliness
7.  Living in consonance with nature – ensuring a balance between development and ecology
8.  Preserving and promoting local cultural heritage
9.  Inculcatng mutual cooperation, self-help, and self-reliance
10.  Fostering peace and harmony in the village community
11.  Bringing about transparency, accountability, and probity in public life
12.  Nurturing local self-governance
13.  Adhering to the values enshrined in the Fundamental Rights and Fundamental Duties of the Indian Constitution The scheme targets beneficiaries such as Self Help Groups (SHGS). The implementing agency is Gram Panchayat. Additionally, the nodal ministry is Ministry Of Rural Development and the nodal department is Department of Rural Development.

It falls under the categories: Agriculture,Rural & Environment.

Eligibility criteria include: The Gram Panchayat should be the basic unit. 


The village should have a population of 30005000 in plain areas and 10003000 in hilly, tribal, and difficult areas. (In districts where this unit size is not available, Gram Panchayats approximating the desirable population size may be chosen.)


The MP would identify a suitable Gram Panchayat from the rural area of any district in the country, other than his/her own village or that of his/her spouse.


The MP will identify one Gram Panchayat to be taken up immediately, and two others to be taken up a little later. 


Lok Sabha MP has to choose a Gram Panchayat from within his/her constituency.


Rajya Sabha MP has to choose a Gram Panchayat from the rural area of a district of his/her choice in the State from which he/she is elected. 


In the case of urban constituencies, (where there are no Gram Panchayats), the MP will identify a Gram Panchayat from a nearby rural constituency.


The Gram Panchayats once selected by the MP (whose tenures have ended on account of resignation or otherwise) would be continued as such under SAGY irrespective of whether activities have already been initiated in the GP under SAGY or not. The newly elected MPs will have the option to select the GP of their choice and two more subsequently by > Note: 

Primarily, the goal is to develop three Adarsh Grams by March 2019, of which one would be achieved by Thereafter, five such Adarsh Grams (one per year) will be selected and developed by  For more information, please refer to: Guidelines (English): https://saanjhi.gov.in/pdf/Guidelines_English.pdf Guidelines (Hindi): https://saanjhi.gov.in/pdf/guidelines_hindi.pdf Guidelines (Other Languages): https://saanjhi.gov.in/Guidlines.aspx National Portal Of India: https://www.india.gov.in/spotlight/saansad-adarsh-gram-yojana FAQs (English): https://saanjhi.gov.in/pdf/RR_FAQ_english.pdf FAQs (Hindi): https://saanjhi.gov.in/pdf/RR_FAQ_hindi.pdf Tags associated with the scheme include: Rural Development.