The name of this welfare scheme is Promotion of Literature on Art & Culture of Local Authors/ Organization. It is also known as PLACLAO. The scheme &quot;Goa State Best Library and Best Librarian Award&quot; has been designed by the Directorate of Art and Culture, Government of Goa to encourage Goan writers to publish their literature on Art and Culture. The entire expenditure on printing and publishing the book is borne by Govt. by keeping the copyright of the publication. Every year two or more books are published depending upon the availability of funds. About 1000 copies are printed and supplied to Educational institutions, libraries, Cultural Institutions etc.


> Objectives


1. To encourage Goan writers to publish their literature on Art &amp; culture.
1. To bear the entire expenditure on printing and publishing of the book by keeping the copyright of the publication. The scheme targets beneficiaries such as Individual. It is specifically implemented in Goa. Additionally, the nodal department is Art, Culture and Museums Department.

The scheme provides the following benefits: > Nature and Quantum of Assistance


The entire expenditure on printing and publishing the book is borne by the Government by keeping the copyright of the publication. 
Every year two year or more books are published depending upon the availability of funds. 
About 1,000 copies are printed and supplied to Educational institutions, libraries, Cultural Institutions etc. 
The authors are paid an honorarium.

Eligibility criteria include: The applicant should be an author from Goa.
Only the literature concerned with the cultural traditions of the state of Goa shall be published.



NOTE: Authors who have already availed the benefit shall not be considered for a second time. The application process is as follows: Step 1: The interested applicant should visit the Directorate Of Art &amp; Culture, Government of Goa, 5th Floor, Shram Shakti Bhavan, Panaji, Patto, Panaji, Goa 403001
Step 2: Request a hard copy of the proforma of the application form from the concerned authority.
Step 3: In the application form, fill in all the mandatory fields, paste the passportsized photograph (signed across), and attach copies of all the mandatory documents (selfattest if required).
Step 4: Submit the duly filled and signed application form along with the documents to the ACOII, Directorate of Art &amp; Culture, Phone: 08322404623, Email: aco3dac.goa@nic.in For more information, please refer to: Citizen's Charter: https://www.goa.gov.in/wp-content/uploads/2022/06/Chitizen-Charter-2022-2023-art-and-culture.pdf Tags associated with the scheme include: Author, Book, Culture, Literature, Publisher.