The name of this welfare scheme is Comprehensive Handicrafts Cluster Development Programme. It is also known as CHCDP. The objective is to develop these two clusters with world-class infrastructure. The guiding principle behind the design of clusters would be to create world-class infrastructure that caters to the business needs of the local artisans &amp; SMEs to boost production and export. In brief, the main objective of setting up these clusters is to assist the artisans &amp; entrepreneurs in setting up world-class units with modern infrastructure, the latest technology, and adequate training and HRD inputs, coupled with market linkages and production diversification. SPV is designed in such a way, it will have Standard Models of units of SSI and SME with infrastructure that is customized to give a competitive edge and these centers have greater potential to become globally competitive. The scheme targets beneficiaries such as Artists, Government Organisation, Industries. Additionally, the nodal ministry is Ministry Of Textiles.

The scheme provides the following benefits: Under the Comprehensive Handicrafts Cluster Development Scheme, interventions such as baseline Survey and activity Mapping, Skill Training, Marketing events, Improved Tool Kits, Publicity, Seminars, capacity building, Design workshops, etc will be provided. The scheme will also provide for Emporiums, Common Facility Centres, Raw Material Banks, Trade Common Production Centres, Facilitation Centres, and Design &amp; Resource Centres.

Eligibility criteria include: The Implementing Agency (lA), which will be a Special Purpose Vehicle (SPV), shall be a legal entity, preferably a company, with the participation of related stakeholders, particularly the leading manufacturers, suppliers, buyers, and artisan federations/SHGs. The SPV shall be selected preferably through an open competitive bidding process. However, selection of SPV would mainly depend on the project profile, activities required to be intervened, and on various other parameters, therefore selection of such suitable SPV after seeking formal approval of PAMC. As the Handicrafts sector is highly unorganized, the procedure for selection of SPV in special cases shall be kept open for PAMC/Government. The application process is as follows: Application to be submitted by the Executing Agency (EA) at the concerned Regional office of the Textile Commissioner. For more information, please refer to: Guidelines: chrome-extension://efaidnbmnnnibpcajpcglclefindmkaj/https://texmin.nic.in/sites/default/files/11d_Guidelines_of_development_of_mega_cluster_scheme_Handicrafts_nmcc_cs_20090312.pdf Tags associated with the scheme include: Infrastructural Support, Local Artisans, Market Access, Technology Upgradation.