The name of this welfare scheme is Amar Fasal Amar Gola. It is also known as AFAG. The West Bengal Government had announced a pilot project to provide financial assistance to marginal farmers of the State so that they can have their own storehouses and vending carts. A subsidy varying between Rs. 5,000 and Rs. 25,000 will be provided for the warehouses. Though there are 24 lakh small and marginal farmers in the State, only around 10,000 such farmers would be covered initially under two schemes. Chief Minister Mamata Banerjee has named the schemes as Amar Fasal, Amar Gola (My Crop, My Storehouse) and Amar Fasal Amar Gari (My crop, my vehicle). In the case of the AmarFasal Amar Gari project, the rate of subsidy would be Rs. 10,000 flat. This project will facilitate those farmers who wish to directly sell their products to end users. The subsidies would be directly credited to the bank accounts of those farmers who own Kisan Credit Cards. The scheme targets beneficiaries such as Village. It is specifically implemented in West Bengal. Additionally, the nodal department is Agriculture Department.

It falls under the categories: Agriculture,Rural & Environment.

Eligibility criteria include: The eligibility criteria for the “Amar Fasal Amar Gola” scheme in West Bengal may vary depending on the specific implementation of the scheme by the state government. However, some of the common eligibility criteria for such schemes include:


Residency: Farmers may be required to be residents of the state of West Bengal in order to be eligible for the scheme.


Agricultural land ownership: Farmers may be required to own agricultural land in the state in order to be eligible for the scheme.


Type of crop: The scheme may only be available for certain types of crops, such as food crops or cash crops.


Size of landholding: The scheme may have specific requirements for the size of the landholding in order to be eligible for financial assistance.


Previous participation: The scheme may have conditions regarding previous participation in other agricultural schemes.


Income criteria: Farmers may be required to meet certain income criteria in order to be eligible for the scheme.


It is recommended to contact the relevant authorities in the state of West Bengal, such as the Department of Agriculture or the Ministry of Agriculture, for a complete and uptodate list of the eligibility criteria for the “Amar Fasal Amar Gola” scheme. For more information, please refer to: Guideline: https://www.wbgov.org/amar-fasal-amar-gola-scheme/ Guideline: https://cdn.s3waas.gov.in/s3aff1621254f7c1be92f64550478c56e6/uploads/2022/08/2022083081.pdf