The name of this welfare scheme is Pratyasha Scheme- West Bengal. It is also known as PS-WEST BENGAL. The Govt. of West Bengal has undertaken a housing project scheme named &amp;quot; PRATYASHA&amp;quot; for Police Personnel (from Inspectors to Constables) working in the West Bengal Police to materialize their dreams of owning houses. The West Bengal State Police Housing Corporation will construct various types of flats with the financial assistance of Housing and Urban Development Corporation Ltd (HUDCO) and all Police Personnel would be welcome to fill in forms for their required housing assistance.
Procedure of allotment:
The flats will be allotted to the applicants through a lottery on a random selection basis. Unallotted flats, if any, after the lottery, will be allotted to the eligible allottees on a &amp;quot;first come first served&amp;quot; basis or through lottery on a random selection basis. In case the applications remain less than the no of flats of this project, then the allotments will be made on a first come first served basis The scheme targets beneficiaries such as Individual. It is specifically implemented in West Bengal. The implementing agency is West Bengal Police Housing & Infrastructure Development Corporation Limited. Additionally, the nodal department is Housing Department.

The scheme provides the following benefits: Construction of various types of flats for all Police Personnel of West Bengal.

Eligibility criteria include: Any Police personnel in the ranks of Deputy Superintendent(NonWBPS)/ Assistant Commissioner, Inspector, SubInspector/ Sergeant, Assistant SubInspector, Constable, and equivalent ranks of West Bengal Police and Kolkata Police can apply independently for dwelling units under this project as per their entitlement as mentioned below:
a)	Police personnel in the ranks of Deputy Superintendent(NonWBPS)/ Assistant Commissioner, Inspector or SubInspector/ Sergeant and equivalent ranks of West Bengal Police and Kolkata Police whose total pay (Basic Pay + Grade Pay) is ₹ 18,000/(Rupees eighteen thousand) or more can apply for “A” category of dwelling units having flat area (approximate) 1123 sq. ft. per unit.
b)	Police personnel in the ranks of Inspector/ SubInspector/ Sergeant or Assistant SubInspector, Constable, and equivalent ranks of West Bengal Police and Kolkata Police whose total pay (Basic Pay + Grade Pay) is ₹15,000/(Rupees fifteen thousand) or more can apply for “B” category of dwelling units having flat area (approximate) 926 sq. ft. per unit.
c)	Police personnel in the ranks of Assistant SubInspector, Constable and equivalent ranks of West Bengal Police and Kolkata Police whose total pay (Basic Pay + Grade Pay) is ₹ 8,840/(Rupees eight thousand eight hundred forty) or more can apply for “C” category of dwelling units having flat area (approximate) 794 sq. ft. per unit.
One Police personnel in the abovenoted ranks will be eligible to submit only one application for this Scheme (No other family member may apply separately).
In the case of a joint application, only a member of the immediate family (spouse, parents, and children) is eligible to be the second applicant. The first applicant shall be the eligible personnel of West Bengal Police or Kolkata Police only.
Only one flat will be allotted to the eligible applicant if he/she is selected through lottery on a random selection basis.
The Corporation, however, reserves the right to relax any of these conditions whatsoever without assigning any reason.
&lt;br&gt; The application process is as follows: Step 01: The application form along with Information Guide and General Terms &amp;amp; Conditions may be downloaded from the website of West Bengal Police and Kolkata Police (https://www.kolkatapolice.gov.in/). https://kolkatapolice.gov.in/images/PratyashaProject.pdf
Step 02: Application shall be accompanied by an A/C Payee Demand Draft/ Pay Order/Banker’s Cheque drawn in favour of the “Managing Director, West Bengal Police Housing &amp;amp; Infrastructure Development Corporation Limited” on any Bank payable at Kolkata as per application money. Application with instruments payable outside Kolkata may be rejected at the discretion of WBPH &amp;amp; IDC Ltd. without citing any reason.
Step 03: The applicants should provide the details of his/ her Name, Father’s/ Husband’s Name, and Telephone No. on the reverse of the Demand Draft/ Pay Order/ Banker’s Cheque for application money.
Step 04: Application Form duly filled in and completed in all respect, duly signed by the applicant along with Demand Draft/ Pay Order/Banker’s Cheque for the amount as mentioned above and other documents of the General Terms &amp;amp; Conditions may be submitted at the office of West Bengal Police Housing &amp;amp; Infrastructure Development Corporation Limited, Araksha Bhawan (3rd Floor), BlockDJ, SectorII, Salt Lake City, Kolkata700 Step 05: Applicants who wish to send their application by post, must send the application form along with application money as mentioned above, and other documents of General Terms &amp;amp; Conditions in the prescribed form, to the following address:The Managing Director, West Bengal Police Housing &amp;amp; Infrastructure Development Corporation Limited, Araksha Bhawan (3rd Floor), BlockDJ, SectorII, Salt Lake City, Kolkata&lt;br&gt; For more information, please refer to: Guideline: https://howrah.gov.in/scheme/pratyasha/ Website: https://wb.gov.in/government-schemes-details-pratyasha.aspx Notification: https://kolkatapolice.gov.in/images/PratyashaProject.pdf Tags associated with the scheme include: Financial Assistance, Flats, House, Housing Assistance, Police.