The name of this welfare scheme is State Welfare Scheme For Purohits. It is also known as SWSP. The scheme “State Welfare Scheme for Purohits” was launched by the Department of Information &amp;amp; Cultural Affairs, West Bengal in September 2020 to benefit the financially distressed practicing temple /tribal purohit or priests of other communities like Christians, Jain, and Buddhists.
         The Purohits and priests of other communities like Christians, Jains, Buddhists &amp;amp; Parsis perform important social, cultural, and community functions having wide public ramifications.  Considering the very significant roles played by the Purohits and priests of other communities like Christians, Jains, Buddhists &amp;amp; Parsis in our society and in view of their financial condition, the State Government has launched the scheme. The scheme targets beneficiaries such as Individual. It is specifically implemented in West Bengal. The implementing agency is Department Of Information & Cultural Affairs, West Bengal. Additionally, the nodal department is Information and Cultural Affairs Department.

The scheme provides the following benefits: Monthly Financial Assistance for all the poor Purohits and poor priests of other communities like Christians, Jains, Buddhists &amp;amp; Parsis of ₹1,000/per month.
A grant of ₹1,20,000/will be provided to each poor Purohit/poor priest of other communities like Christians/ Jains/ Buddhists / Parsis for the construction of a dwelling house.

Eligibility criteria include: All the poor Purohits or poor priests of other communities like Christians, Jains, Buddhists, and Parsis in the State will be eligible under the scheme.
The person is a resident of West Bengal on the date of making an application under the Scheme.
The person is not a beneficiary under any other Social Security pension scheme or a recipient of Government pension or pension from any other organization.
For receiving a housing grant, the person does not have a pucca dwelling house of his or her own but if he or she shall have a piece of land in his name. In case the beneficiary does not own land for the construction of the dwelling house, the State Government will mobilize vested and other lands whenever possible for providing housing facilities to such families.
The applicant must be a financially distressed /economically backward practicing priest attached to any place of worship. The application process is as follows: Step 01: The interested beneficiary may apply under the scheme by filling the application form in the prescribed format (As per the guidelines of the scheme). (https://wb.gov.in/pdf/statewelfarescheme.pdf)
Step 02: Application form shall be submitted to:
The Block Development Officer in case the applicant residing in the rural areas;
The SubDivisional Officer in case the applicant is residing in Municipal / Notified Areas outside the areas of Kolkata Municipal Corporation and to the Municipal Commissioner, Kolkata Municipal Corporation in case the applicant is residing in Kolkata Municipal Corporation area.
Step 03: Verification of Application:
All pension applications received by the concerned authorities shall be verified with respect to the eligibility criteria.
The supporting document, for residential status is to be provided. For housing grant, supporting document for land ownership, if any is to be provided.
Step 04: Processing of Application:
The application form in the prescribed format in respect of all applicants shall be duly verified by the BDO/SDO, or Municipal Commissioner, KMC, to ensure eligibility under the Scheme.
The concerned District Magistrate or Municipal Commissioner, KMC will recommend the names of the eligible persons to the Nodal Department i.e. Department of Information &amp; Cultural Affairs.
The Information and Cultural Affairs Department will sanction the financial assistance and effect payment directly to the bank account of the beneficiary. For more information, please refer to: Website: https://howrah.gov.in/information-cultural-affairs/ Guideline: https://wb.gov.in/pdf/state_welfare_scheme.pdf Tags associated with the scheme include: Economically Backward, Financial Assistance, House, Priests, Purohit.