The name of this welfare scheme is Krishi Unnati Yojana - MOVCDNER. It is also known as KUY MOVCDNER . About 
Realizing the potential of organic farming in the North Eastern Region of the country Ministry of Agriculture and Farmer Welfare has launched a Central Sector Scheme entitled “Mission Organic Value Chain Development for North Eastern Region&quot; for implementation in the states of Arunachal Pradesh, Assam, Manipur, Meghalaya, Mizoram, Nagaland, Sikkim and Tripura, during the 12th plan period. The scheme aims at development of certified organic production in a value chain mode to link growers with consumers and to support the development of entire value chain starting from inputs, seeds, and certification, to the creation of facilities for collection, aggregation, processing marketing and brand building initiative.


Mission Objectives
A. To develop crop commodity-specific organic value chain and address gaps in organic crop production, wild crop harvesting, organic livestock management and processing handling and marketing of organic agricultural products through: 

1. Developing crop-specific organic production clusters with necessary infrastructural, technical and financial support.
1. By facilitating partnerships between farmers and organic businesses: Local enterprises and/or Farmer Producer Companies based on back-to-back long-term trade relations with clients in domestic and export markets.
1. By providing enabling environment for project initiatives and development programs with the necessary support for organic value chain development and creating market access.



B. To empower producers with program ownership by organizing them into Farmer Interest Groups (FIGs) with the final aim to federate into farmer-producer organizations/ companies.
C. To replace conventional farming/subsistence farming system into local resource-based, self sustainable, high value commercial organic enterprise.
D. Developing commodity-specific commercial organic value chain under an integrated and concentrated approach with end-to-end facilities for production, processing, storage and marketing.
E. Development of organic parks/zones with facilities for collection, aggregation, value addition, processing, storage and market-linkages for specific commodities requiring capital-intensive technology.
F. Develop NER products as brands/labels through brand building and facilitating stronger marketing access under the ownership of growers’ organizations/ companies.
G. Creating state specific lead agency (Organic Commodity Board or Organic Mission) for coordinating, monitoring, supporting and financing the development and operationalization of the entire value chain.


Project Strategies

1. To mobilize commodity clusters and facilitate capacity building, hand holding, and infrastructure creation for on-farm input production, training on the package of practices and facilitating certification services to farmers.
1. To facilitate the creation and linking of enterprises (local enterprises/ farmer producer companies) that can create and operate collection, aggregation and post-harvest processes, trade organic products and provide necessary services to farmers and work towards increasing their market.
1. To set up lead agencies at central and state to partner with value chain supporting agencies, and service providers and institute business development consultancies. To provide access to information, know-how and finance and enable the enterprises to offer efficient services, support them in building required management capacities, and stimulate market growth.



Mission Implementation Structure
The scheme “Organic Value Chain Development for North Eastern Region” will be implemented in a Mission mode. The Mission structure at the Government of India level will comprise of National Advisory Committee (NAC), Executive Committee (EC), Mission Monitoring Committee (MMC) and Mission Head Quarter at DAC&amp;FW. 


At the state level, the mission will be implemented by the State Level Executive Committee (SLEC) and executed through a designated state Lead Agency in the form of a state “Organic Commodity Board” or “Organic Mission”. The State Lead Agency shall function under the overall supervision of the Department of Agriculture/ Horticulture and State Lead Agency shall be manned by professional experts on contract. The scheme targets beneficiaries such as State Government. Additionally, the nodal ministry is Ministry Of Agriculture and Farmers Welfare and the nodal department is Department of Agriculture and Cooperation.

It falls under the categories: Agriculture,Rural & Environment.

Eligibility criteria include: Value Chain Post Harvest

Financial assistance for setting up of functional infrastructure for collection units, grading units and North East organic bazaar (NE organic Bazaar)State lead agencies will facilitate FPCs for development of functional infrastructure for collection and grading units under the ownership of FPCs through technical consultancies and hired experts. NE organic Bazaar will be created, maintained and operated by FPCs/FIGs/ FPOs registered under MOVCDNER, which will function like collection centers between the farm gate and processing infrastructures. The beneficiary FPCs/FIGs/ FPOs need to fulfill certain criteria to become eligible for financial assistance under the Mission which are as belowFPCs/FIGs/ FPOs has minimum contiguous area of organic cultivation or organic conversion not less than 400 Ha.
The marketing infrastructure shall be within the radius of 25 Km from clustersdeveloped and registered under MOVCDNER.

  Financial assistance restricted to 75% of total financial outlay (TFO) or maximum budget allocation (Rs. 25 lakh per unit) whichever is less shall be provided 


Value Chain Processing

Financial assistance for setting up of integrated processing units Setting up of an integrated processing unit is linked with the area already brought under organic certification or is proposed for conversion to organic. It must be ensured that adequate raw material is available from grower groups in close vicinity. It is also to be ensured that facilities are created in such a way that different commodities can be processed under a single roof facility and the unit can run for at least 810 months a year. Subsidy should be on a Prorata Basis wherein it will be elaborated as the proportionate release of the funds on the basis of the promoter’s contribution. These projects should preferably be entrepreneur driven and support is provided as credit linked subsidy. FPCs/FPOs/FIGs registered under the relevant act and having at least 250500 members will also be entitled to avail assistance. FPCs/FPOs/FIGs can avail of subsidy without credit link, subject to the condition that they are able to meet their share of the project cost and route their entire setting up transactions through banks.  Assistance to FPCs/FPOs/FIGs will be restricted to 75% of TFO or Rs 600 lakh, whichever is less. Assistance to private entrepreneurs shall be 50% of TFO or a maximum of Rs. 600 lakh whichever is less as credit linked subsidy. Before sanctioning of such units, states need to ensure the feasibility and economic viability of the unit and technology being employed are of an appropriate standard and acceptable to the market.  Project Management Unit shall help the state lead agencies in identifying the technologies and technologyproviding agencies/ institutions.Integrated pack house The scheme provides for the setting up of an integrated pack house as a subsidiary component of collection, aggregation and grading units and integrated processing units. While designing the type of pack house it must be ensured that it meets the requirement of the commodities targeted, is accessible to the handling and processing unit and have linkages with the market. This component should also be taken up as entrepreneur driven. FPCs/FPOs/FIGs will also be entitled to avail assistance. They may avail of subsidy without credit link, subject to the condition that they are able to meet their share of the project cost. Assistance to FPCs/FPOs/FIG shall be restricted to 75% of TFO or Rs 50 Lakh, whichever is less. Assistance to private entrepreneurs shall be 50% of TFO or a maximum of Rs 50 Lakh, whichever is less as credit linked subsidyTransportation/4wheeler up to TFO of 12 lahks (50%) Refrigerated transport vehicles and precooling/ cold stores/ ripening chambers etc constitute for cold chain infrastructure and should be developed as an integral part of the integrated pack house. State lead agencies need to ascertain the need according to the commodities and quantities being targeted. Extant specifications standards and protocols on cold storage and coldchain components will be adhered to while approving cold storage projects. Revisions to technical standards and adherence protocols shall be updated by National Centre for Coldchain Development (NCCD) as necessary when improved technologies and efficiencies are introduced/understood/approved. Cold chain component Assistance for Refrigerated transport vehicles and precooling/ cold stores/ ripening chambers etc. will also be subjected to the conditions mentioned in1 above and at Cold chain component B.3 above. Assistance to FPCs/FPOs/FIGs will be restricted to 75% of TFO or Rs. 75 lakh, whichever is less, separately for both refrigerated vehicles and cold storage etc. Assistance to private entrepreneurs shall be 50% of TFO or a maximum of Rs. 75 lakh for each component whichever is less as creditlinked subsidy is. For more information, please refer to: Guideline: https://agricoop.nic.in/sites/default/files/movcdner_revised.pdf Tags associated with the scheme include: Krishi, KUY, MOVCDNER, Unnati.