The name of this welfare scheme is Financial Assistance To Ex-Convicts. It is also known as FAE-C. The scheme “Financial Assistance to Ex-Convicts” was launched by the Department of Social Justice, Government of Kerala. This scheme is implemented by the Department of Social Justice to help those released from jail from poor economic conditions to find their livelihood. As part of this scheme, one-time financial assistance is provided to those released from jail to find self-employment and start some small Industry/Trade as part of social rehabilitation. 
      The age-old idea was that the offender should be confined to prison and kept away from the community as long as possible. But, in the course of time, it has been realized that the protection of society is better ensured if the offender is corrected and reformed through individualized treatments. Therefore, the Government of Kerala has started this scheme and providing financial assistance to them. Thus, by utilizing this amount of assistance Ex-Convicts shall be engaged in small-scale income-generating activities. The scheme targets beneficiaries such as Individual. It is specifically implemented in Kerala. The implementing agency is District Probation Office, Kerala. Additionally, the nodal department is Social Justice Department.

The scheme provides the following benefits: Under the scheme, the maximum amount of financial assistance is ₹15,000/per person will be provided to the eligible beneficiary as onetime assistance.

Eligibility criteria include: The applicant should be a native and resident of Kerala State.
The applicant should be ExConvict (released from jail from poor economic conditions).
The applicant should belong to Below Poverty Line (BPL) category. The application process is as follows: Registration Process:
Step 01: To avail of the benefits of the scheme, the applicant needs to visit SUNEETHIOnline Service Application Portal
Step 02: On the home page, click on “One time Registration”
Step 03: Fill in the details like Name, Email ID &amp;amp; Mobile Number and click on ‘Register’.
Step 04: The applicant needs to enter the verification code received on the mobile number and click on ‘Verify’.
Step 05: Now, a form will open to create the new profile, fill in all the mandatory details and click on ‘Register’.
Login/Application Process: 
Step 01: Once the registration process is completed, the applicant should visit SUNEETHIOnline Service Application Portal and click on “Citizen Login”.
Step 02: Enter the user name i.e. Mobile Number and Password and click on “Sign in”.
Step 03: Now, the applicant needs to update all their details i.e. Personal Information, Contact Details, Identity Cards &amp;amp; Bank Details by clicking on the &amp;#39;Edit&amp;#39; button.
Step 04: Once the applicant updated their profile successfully, the schemes will appear on the left side of the screen.
Step 05: Select the scheme and click on the “Apply Now” button.
Step 06: Fill in all the mandatory details in the application form and click on the ‘Submit’ button. Step 01: To avail of the benefits of the scheme, the applicant needs to visit the official website of the Social Justice Department, Government of Kerala to download the application form. (The application form will also be available from the District Probation Officer)
Step 02: The applicant needs to fill out the application form completely.
Step 03: The duly filled application along with supporting documents should be submitted to the Probation Officer concerned. For more information, please refer to: Official Website: http://sjd.kerala.gov.in/scheme-info.php?scheme_id=MTQwc1Y4dXFSI3Z5 Application Form- Ex-convicts: http://sjd.kerala.gov.in/DOCUMENTS/Downloadables/Application%20Forms/22166.pdf Application Form - Probationers: http://sjd.kerala.gov.in/DOCUMENTS/Downloadables/Application%20Forms/22167.pdf Tags associated with the scheme include: BPL, Ex-Convict, Financial Assistance, Jail, Self-employment.