The name of this welfare scheme is Price Support Scheme. It is also known as PSS. The Price Support Scheme (PSS) is being implemented by the Government of India in the state. 
Main crops of the state like Bajra, Jowar, Maize, Paddy, Cotton, Tur, Moong, Urad, Groundnut, Sesamum Wheat, Gram, Mustard, and Sugarcane etc. are covered.
The Department of Agriculture &amp; Cooperation implements the PSS for procurement of oil seeds, pulses and cotton, through NAFED which is the Central nodal agency, at the MSP declared by the government.
NAFED undertakes procurement as and when prices fall below the MSP. Procurement under PSS is continued till prices stabilize at or above the MSP.


Assurance of a remunerative and stable price environment for growers/farmers is very important for increasing agricultural production and productivity. The market price for agricultural produce many times tends to be unstable and volatile which may result into undue losses to the growers and discourage adoption of the modern technology and required inputs. 


The Government’s price policy for agricultural commodities strives to ensure profitable prices to the growers with a vision of encouraging higher investment and production. This leads to safeguarding the consumer interest by making available supplies at reasonable prices with low cost of intermediation. Moreover, the price policy aims at changing a balance and integrated price structure with respect to the overall needs of the economy. Let us take a look at the Price Support Scheme, an initiative taken by the Government to ensure a productive environment for farmers. The scheme targets beneficiaries such as Individual. It is specifically implemented in Assam. Additionally, the nodal department is Food, Civil Supplies and Consumer Affairs Department.

It falls under the categories: Agriculture,Rural & Environment.

Eligibility criteria include: 1)	Farmers get the benefit of the scheme by selling their produce at support price in APMC centers opened by the Nodal procurement agency. 
2)	Farmers belong to Assam State. 
3)	Government employees are not allowed to apply to the scheme. For more information, please refer to: Guidelines: file:///C:/Users/Lenovo/Downloads/PRICE%20SUPPORT%20SCHEMES.pdf Govt. Website: https://fcsca.assam.gov.in/schemes/price-support-scheme Tags associated with the scheme include: Agriculture, DBT, Farmer, Financial Assistance, Seeds.