The name of this welfare scheme is Mukhyamantri Kalakar Sahayata Yojana. It is also known as MKSYODISHA. Mukhyamantri Kalakar Sahayata Yojana is a scheme under the Odia Language, Literature &amp;amp; Culture Department, Government of Odisha aims to offer sustenance and assistance to elderly artists who, despite facing financial hardship, have consistently devoted themselves to enriching, displaying, and preserving the arts and culture of Odisha. Under this scheme, pension is provided to indigent artists who are in distress condition despite his/her lifelong commitment/dedication to our art and culture with their noteworthy contributions. This scheme has been designed to be implemented with specific stipulations with regard to age, income, his/her contribution as an artist and the physical and financial condition of his/her family. The scheme targets beneficiaries such as Individual. It is specifically implemented in Odisha. The implementing agency is Culture Department, Government Of Odisha. Additionally, the nodal department is Culture Department.

The scheme provides the following benefits: The financial assistance for an artist shall be ₹1200/per month.

Note: 

  After the first payment is given in cash and the beneficiary is properly identified by the authority, the financial assistance will be deposited every month into the beneficiary&amp;#39;s Savings Bank account in any Nationalized Bank.

Eligibility criteria include: An artist in order to be eligible for the assistance shall be of a minimum of 50 years of age in the case of males and 40 years and above in the case of female artists.
   The annual income of the artist shall not exceed ₹50,000/only for the artists belonging to the Rural Area and ₹60,000/only for the artists belonging to the Urban Area or as may further be determined by the Government from time to time.
   An artist covered under this scheme will not be eligible for similar benefits under any other scheme of the Government.

Note: Each year in the month of April, the beneficiary shall furnish his/her Life Certificate in the prescribed Form signed by any Member of Parliament/Member of the Legislative Assembly/any Gazetted Government Officer /Chairman of ULBs/Chairman of any Panchayat Samiti.
&gt; Cancellation of Pension:


   On his/her death
   On the satisfaction of the Government that information furnished to the District Level Selection Committee in pursuance was either erroneous, false or inconclusive (or)
   On the determination by the Government that the beneficiary has indulged in activities prejudicial to the public interest or public order (or)
   On his/her ceasing to have the eligibility
   Nonsubmission of Life Certificate within the prescribed date line during each year. The application process is as follows: Step 01: To avail of the benefits under the scheme, the applicant need to visit the official login website: http://www.mksy.in/
Step 02: The applicants need to register, in case not registered, click on “Apply for Registration’’ and fill in all the mandatory details i.e. Personal details, Address details, Family and Income information, Artist&amp;#39;s Skilled Detail, and Bank Details.
Step 03: After successful registration, the applicant can login through the user name and password to fill out the application form. 
Step 04: Fill all the mandatory details in the application form and upload all the required documents. 
Step 05: Submit the application form after verifying all the filled details.
Note: The Department shall publish an advertisement in the print, and electronic media and on the Department’s website seeking applications from eligible artists within a period of 2 months from the date of such publication.
&gt; Procedure of Selection:

Step 01: There shall be a Selection Committee in each District with the Collector &amp;amp; District Magistrate as the Chairman. The concerned District Culture Officer shall place the applications before the Selection Committee for consideration.
Step 02: The Selection Committee shall scrutinize each application with respect to the genuineness of the artists as per eligible criteria. The selection of artists shall be finalized by the Committee and approved by the Collector of the District.
Step 03: The approved list shall be forwarded to the Director, Odia Bhasa, Sahitya &amp;amp; Sanskruti Department for release of financial assistance.
Step 04: The approval of artists shall be individually communicated by the District Level Selection Committee.
Step 05: In case the total numbers of beneficiaries are not selected in the first year, fresh advertisements may be made during the next year to fill up the target allotted to the District. For more information, please refer to: Guidelines/Notification: https://culture.odisha.gov.in/sites/default/files/2021-06/Mukhyamantri_Kalakar_Sahayata_Yojana_2018.pdf Application Portal: https://www.mksy.in/ Tags associated with the scheme include: Artist, Culture, Kalakar, Literature, Pension.