The name of this welfare scheme is D. D. Kosambi Research Fellowship Scheme. It is also known as DDKFS. The scheme &quot;Goa State Best Library and Best Librarian Award&quot; has been designed by the Directorate of Art and Culture, Government of Goa to encourage Goan Scholars to undertake research in the field of Goan history, culture, arts, social studies etc. Three fellowships shall be awarded, upto one at junior, upto one at senior &amp; upto one at the post-doctoral level each for research in the specified areas every year.


> Objectives


1. To encourage the Goan scholars to undertake research in the areas of society, economy, polity, history, art and culture of Goa. Only topics that are closely connected to Goa will be accepted. However authentic topics pertaining to Goa may also be considered for the fellowship depending upon the decision taken by the selection committee constituted for the purpose. 
1. To create, promote and develop research activities in the State of Goa. 
1. To promote interdisciplinary research programmes in colleges and universities. The scheme targets beneficiaries such as Individual. It is specifically implemented in Goa. Additionally, the nodal department is Art, Culture and Museums Department.

The scheme provides the following benefits: Eligible scholars for the junior category shall be awarded a fellowship up to ₹ 15,000/per month for a maximum period of 2 years, on a casetocase basis. 
Eligible scholars for senior &amp; postdoctoral categories shall be awarded a fellowship of ₹ 20,000/per month for a maximum period of 2 years, on a casetocase basis. 
However, the applicant who undertakes to complete the research work on a fulltime basis may be awarded the scholarship upto ₹ 30,000/per month. In such cases, the research period shall be as decided by the selection committee. 



> Number of Fellowships

A maximum of one fellowship in each category shall be awarded every year. 


NOTE: The amount of fellowship shall be assessed on the recommendation of the selection committee after the submission of his/her project.

Eligibility criteria include: Any individual who has completed postgraduation and is upto 35 years of age shall be eligible to undertake research in the junior category.
Any individual who has completed postgraduation and is above the age of 35 shall be eligible to undertake research in the senior category. 
Any individual who has completed a PhD shall be eligible to undertake research in the postdoctoral category. There shall be no age bar in this category. 
The fellowship shall be awarded to any scholar only once in his lifetime under each category. The application process is as follows: Step 1: The interested applicant should visit the Directorate Of Art &amp; Culture, Government of Goa, 5th Floor, Shram Shakti Bhavan, Panaji, Patto, Panaji, Goa 403001
Step 2: Take a print of the proforma of the application form of the respective scheme, or request a hard copy from the concerned authority.
Step 3: In the application form, fill in all the mandatory fields, paste the passportsized photograph (signed across), and attach copies of all the mandatory documents (selfattest if required).
Step 4: Submit the duly filled and signed application form along with the documents to the ACOII, Directorate of Art &amp; Culture, Phone: 08322404623, Email: aco3dac.goa@nic.in. For more information, please refer to: Citizen's Charter: https://www.goa.gov.in/wp-content/uploads/2022/06/Chitizen-Charter-2022-2023-art-and-culture.pdf Guidelines: https://www.goa.gov.in/wp-content/uploads/2016/12/D.-D.-KOSAMBI-RESEARCH-FELLOWSHIP-1.pdf Description On Directorate's Website: https://www.artandculture.goa.gov.in/en/schemes-programmesgrants/d-d-kosambi-research-fellowship Tags associated with the scheme include: Arts, Education, Fellowship, PhD, Research, Social Studies.