The name of this welfare scheme is Mukhyamantri Sports Development Scheme - Retired Person. It is also known as MSDSRP. Launched on 9th February 2024 the &quot;Mukhyamantri Sports Development Scheme-Retired Person&quot; was launched by the Directorate of Youth Affairs &amp; Sports, Government of Tripura. The scheme aims to generate employment opportunities (Gymnastics, Swimming) for retired persons (Senior Physical Instructors) to give a monthly fixed remuneration of ₹30,000/-. The contract is tenable for a maximum period of 6 months, it may be extended or curtailed (The total period of engagement of consultants shall not exceed 5 years or 64 years of age whichever is earlier.) The scheme targets beneficiaries such as Individual. It is specifically implemented in Tripura. Additionally, the nodal department is Youth Affairs and Sports Department.

The scheme provides the following benefits: Fixed remuneration of ₹30,000/per month.

Eligibility criteria include: The applicant should be a resident of Tripura.
The applicant should be a retired sportsperson. 
The applicant&#39;s age should be less than 64 years. The application process is as follows: Step 1: The interested applicant should take print of the prescribed format of the application form.
Step 2: In the application form, fill in all the mandatory fields, paste the passportsized photograph (signed across, if required), and attach copies of all the mandatory documents (selfattest, if required).
Step 3: Submit the duly filled and signed application form along with the documents to the authority given below Tripura: Director of Youth Affairs &amp; Sports, Government of Tripura, Shiksha Bhavan, 4th Floor, Office Lane, Agartala, PinStep 4: Request a receipt or acknowledgment from the concerned authority to whom the application has been submitted. Ensure that the receipt contains essential details such as the date and time of submission, and a unique identification number (if applicable). For more information, please refer to: Guidelines And Application Form: https://yas.tripura.gov.in/sites/default/files/2024-02/ADVERTISEMENT.pdf Tags associated with the scheme include: Employment, Remuneration, Retired, Sports, Sportsperson.