The name of this welfare scheme is  West Bengal Textile Incentive Scheme: State Capital Investment Subsidy. It is also known as WBTISSCIS. The scheme “State Capital Investment Subsidy” is a sub scheme under “West Bengal Textile Incentive Scheme”. It was launched on 13 December, 2022, by the Department of Micro, Small and Medium Enterprises and Textiles, Government of West Bengal, and shall remain valid upto five years.
Objective of the &amp;quot;West Bengal Textile Incentive Scheme” Scheme:
The object of the scheme is to extend fiscal incentives to textile sector across the entire value chain starting from
fibre to stitched garments for setting up such units in the State. The focus is on accelerated and focused development of the textiles sector across the state. This shall enable to maximize the utilization of resources, generate new employment and widen the area of operation to make the state emerge as the preferred destination for investment in the textile sector.
Objective of the &amp;quot;State Capital Investment Subsidy&amp;quot; Scheme:
Through this incentive, an eligible textile sector enterprise shall receive a State Capital Investment Subsidy for its approved project based on the type manufacturing activities. The scheme targets beneficiaries such as Business Entity, Industries, Registered Societies, Self Help Groups (SHGS), Trust. It is specifically implemented in West Bengal. Additionally, the nodal department is Micro, Small & Medium Enterprises and Textiles Department.

The scheme provides the following benefits: An eligible textile sector enterprise in the state will be entitled to State Capital Investment Subsidy for its approved
project as follows:
&lt;br&gt;

Sl. No.Type of Manufacturing ActivitiesQuantum of SubsidyMaximum Admissible AmountSpinning (short staple) 10%₹2,00,00,00,00/Weaving &amp;amp;amp;amp; Knitting (warp and flatbed) and texturing &amp;amp;amp;amp; twisting20%₹1,00,00,00,00/Circular knitting 10%₹50,00,00,00/Dyeing and processing of fibers, yarn, fabric and garment20%₹2,00,00,00,00/Technical textile (Agrotech, Buildtech, Indutech, Geotech, and Meditech) and Nonwoven fabric manufacturing20%₹2,50,00,00,00/Technical textile (All categories except Agrotech, Buildtech, Indutech, Geotech, and Meditech)10%₹1,00,00,00,00/Polymerization20%₹5,00,00,00,00/Composite type of textile unit comprising spinning, weaving, processing (dyeing and processing of fibers, yarn, fabric and garments), technical textile etc. 10%₹5,00,00,00,00/

Eligibility criteria include: Industries in the manufacturing and processing of textiles, apparel and technical textiles products.
  The unit should have started production on or after 1st April The units may be in the private sector, cooperative sector, joint sector as also companies/undertakings owned or managed by the State Government.
  Shall not be applicable to the industrial units/enterprises.
  The project should have been approved and sanctioned by a Central Financial Institution or Commercial Banks or State Financial Institutions.
  The unit should hold an Registration Certificate, Date of Commencement Certificate and Eligibility Certificate issued by the Directorate of Textiles on satisfaction of arrangement. The application process is as follows: Registration Process:
Step 1: Visit the registration page of the Official Website.
Step 2: Fill in all the mandatory details in that window and click on “Register”.
Step 3: You will be registered successfully with a confirmation.
Application Process:
Step 1: Visit the user login page of the Official Website.
Step 2: Login with your registered Mail Id and Password.. 
Step 3: Fill up the eligible form.
Step 4: Check your eligibility in the portal.
Step 5: Fill up your CAF.
Step 6: Fill up Form A and Form C (if any).
Step 7: Download and Self sign Form A and Form C (if any).
Step 8: Upload signed copy of Form A and copy of Form C (if any).
Step 9: Submit Your Application.
Helpdesk: Directorate of Textile. For more information, please refer to: Guidelines (Kolkata Gazette): https://textiles.wb.gov.in/assets/New_PUBLICATION_OF_WBTIS_2022.pdf Tags associated with the scheme include: Entrepreneurship, Incentives, Reimbursement, State Capital Investment Subsidy, Subsidy, Textile.