The name of this welfare scheme is Dr. Muthulakshmi Reddy Ninaivu Inter-caste Marriage Assistance Scheme-I. It is also known as DMRNICMASI. The &#39;Dr. Muthulakshmi Reddy Ninaivu Inter-caste Marriage Assistance Scheme&#39; was launched by the Social Welfare and Women Empowerment Department, Government of Tamil Nadu. The scheme&#39;s objective is to abolish caste and community discrimination by encouraging inter-caste marriage by giving financial assistance to newly married couples of whom one spouse should be from a Scheduled Caste / Scheduled Tribe and the other from a different Community. The scheme targets beneficiaries such as Individual. It is specifically implemented in Tamil Nadu. Additionally, the nodal department is Department of Social Welfare and Women Empowerment.

The scheme provides the following benefits: Financial Assistance of ₹25,000/. 
1 Sovereign (8gm) 22carat gold coin for making Thirumangalyam.



> Mode of disbursal:

₹15,000 through Electronic Clearing Service and ₹10,000 in the form of National Savings Certificate.

Eligibility criteria include: The bride should have passed the 10th standard (5th standard in case the applicant is from a Scheduled Tribe).
The age of the bride should be above 18 years at the time of marriage.
One spouse should be from a Scheduled Caste/Scheduled Tribe and the other should be from a different Community. The application process is as follows: Step 1: The applicant should gather copies of the necessary documents needed to apply for the concerned scheme.
Step 2: The applicant should visit the nearest Common Service Center (CSC) and complete the Biometric Verification Process.
Step 3: In the application form, fill in all the mandatory fields and upload copies of all the mandatory documents.
Step 4: Request a receipt or acknowledgement from the CSC. Ensure that the receipt contains essential details such as the date and time of submission, and a unique identification number (if applicable).
> Application Deadline:

The application should be submitted within two years from the date of marriage. For more information, please refer to: Citizen's Charter: https://cms.tn.gov.in/sites/default/files/documents/swwe_e_cc_2022_23.pdf Tags associated with the scheme include: Backward Class, Community, Financial Assistance, Inter-caste, Marriage, Scheduled Caste, Scheduled Tribes.