The name of this welfare scheme is Financial Assistance to Indigent Artistes. It is also known as FATIA. The scheme &quot;Financial Assistance to Indigent Artistes&quot; was launched by the Arts and Culture Department, Puducherry. The scheme aims to provide financial assistance of ₹1,000/- per month to indigent artists aged 50 years and above and contributions to music, dance, drama, folk, painting and sculpture etc. The indigent artists resident of the Union Territory of Puducherry either by birth or by domicile. The scheme targets beneficiaries such as Artists. It is specifically implemented in Puducherry. Additionally, the nodal department is Arts and Culture Department, Puducherry.

The scheme provides the following benefits: Financial Assistance of ₹1,000/per month.

Eligibility criteria include: The applicant should be an indigent artist. 
The applicant&#39;s age should be 50 years and above. 
The annual income is less than ₹24,000/. 
The applicant should contribute to music, dance, drama, folk, painting, and sculpture. 
The applicant should not be the recipient of any other assistance from any other Organizations.
The applicant should be a resident of the Union Territory of Puducherry either by birth or by domicile.
The applicant’s wife/children shall be eligible to receive assistance after the death of the indigent artist. The application process is as follows: Step 1: The interested applicant should visit (during office hours) the Department of Art and Culture, and request the hard copy of the prescribed format of the application form from the staff exclusively entrusted to issue and collect filledin applications.
Step 2: In the application form, fill in all the mandatory fields, paste the passportsized photograph (signed across, if required), and attach copies of all the mandatory documents (selfattest, if required).
Step 3: Submit the duly filled and signed application form along with the documents to the superintendent, Department of Art and Culture,1, Romain Rolland Street, Puducherry.
Step 4: Request a receipt or acknowledgment from the superintendent to whom the application has been submitted. Ensure that the receipt contains essential details such as the date and time of submission, and a unique identification number (if applicable). For more information, please refer to: Citizens Charter: https://art.py.gov.in//sites/default/files/ecit1.pdf Tags associated with the scheme include: Artist, Culture, Financial Assistance, Indigent.