The name of this welfare scheme is Subsistence Allowance (Sainik Welfare). It is also known as SA-AFFDF-SW. The scheme &quot;Subsistence Allowance&quot; is a Welfare Scheme by the Armed Forces Flag Day Fund of the Department of Sainik Welfare, Puducherry. The objective of the scheme is to provide financial assistance to the Veterans of the Second World War (WWII), Non-pensioners ESM above 60 years under &quot;Below the Poverty Line (BPL)&quot;, and their widows. This scheme applies only to the Ex-servicemen/Widows of Ex-servicemen registered with the Department of Sainik Welfare, Puducherry. The applications are accepted offline. The scheme targets beneficiaries such as Individual. It is specifically implemented in Puducherry. The implementing agency is Rajya Sainik Board, Puducherry. Additionally, the nodal department is Sainik Welfare Department, Puducherry.

The scheme provides the following benefits: ₹10,000 per month for Second World War (WWII) Veterans, irrespective of financial status. 
₹9,000 per month for Nonpensioners ESM above 60 years under &quot;Below Poverty Line (BPL)&quot;.
₹9,000 per month for widows of the above two categories.

The amount is credited to the beneficiary’s Bank Account through RTGS/ NEFT.

Eligibility criteria include: The applicant should be an ExServiceman or the Widow of an ExServiceman.The applicant should be registered with the Department of Sainik Welfare, Puducherry. The application process is as follows: Step 1: The interested applicant should take print of the prescribed format of the application form for the concerned scheme from the Official Website of the Department of Sainik Welfare.
OR
The interested applicant should visit (Monday Friday, 02:30 PM to 05:00 PM) the Rajya Sainik Board, Jawan Bhawan, Department of Sainik Welfare, Government of Puducherry, 261, Lawspet Main Road, Pakkamudianpet, Puducherry Road, Lawspet, Puducherry 605013, India, and request a hard copy of the prescribed format of the application form from the concerned authority.
Step 2: In the application form, fill in all the mandatory fields, paste the passportsized photograph (signed across, if required), and attach copies of all the mandatory documents (selfattest, if required).
Step 3: The interested applicant should submit the duly filled and signed application form and the documents to the concerned authority at the Rajya Sainik Board.
Step 4: On receipt of the application, necessary entries will be made in the application receipt register by the concerned authority, and a unique number is assigned to the applicant which shall be used for all further references and also as acknowledgement for the receipt of the application.


> Queries/Complaints/Suggestions/Grievances

Address: 261, Lawspet Main Road, Pakkamudianpet, Puducherry Road, Lawspet, Puducherry 605013, India
Phone Number: (+91)(0413) 2253107
Email: dirdsw.pon@nic.in
Hours: Monday Friday, 2:30 pm to 5:00 pm For more information, please refer to: Guidelines: https://sainik.py.gov.in/assistance-affd-fund Government Order: https://sainik.py.gov.in/sites/default/files/g.o.ms.22-dated-24-feb-2020.pdf Application Form: https://sainik.py.gov.in/sites/default/files/subsistence_allowance.pdf Contact Us: https://sainik.py.gov.in/contact-us Tags associated with the scheme include: Allowance, Ex-Serviceman, Financial Asisstance, Sainik, Widow.