The name of this welfare scheme is State Marriage Assistance Scheme. It is also known as SMAS. &quot;The &#39;State Marriage Assistance Scheme,&#39; launched by the Department of Social and Tribal Welfare, UT Ladakh, aims to provide one-time financial assistance of ₹50,000/- to female beneficiaries from AAY or PHH ration cardholder families. Additionally, Divyangjan beneficiaries receive ₹1,00,000/-. Applications can be submitted through the District or Tehsil Social Welfare Officer in Leh or Kargil.&quot; The scheme targets beneficiaries such as Individual. It is specifically implemented in Ladakh. Additionally, the nodal department is Social and Tribal Welfare Department.

The scheme provides the following benefits: Onetime financial assistance of ₹50,000/shall be given to female beneficiaries. 
Financial assistance of ₹1,00,000/has been given to Divyangjan beneficiaries.

Eligibility criteria include: The applicant should belong to Antodaya Anna Yojana (AAY) or Priority Household (PHH) ration cardholder families. 
The bride and bridegroom should be permanent residents of Ladakh
The bride should be above 18 years of age.
The bridegroom should be above 21 years of age.
The marriage should be the first marriage between the bride and the groom.
The divyangjan applicants with benchmark disabilities as defined in “The Rights of Persons with Disabilities Act, 2016 are eligible. The application process is as follows: Step 1: The interested applicant should visit (during office hours) the office of the District Social Welfare and request the hard copy of the prescribed format of the application form from the staff exclusively entrusted to issue and collect filledin applications.
OR
The interested applicant should take print of the prescribed format of the application form.
Step 2: In the application form, fill in all the mandatory fields, paste the passportsized photograph (signed across, if required), and attach copies of all the mandatory documents (selfattest, if required).
Step 3: Submit the duly filled and signed application form along with the documents to the District Social Welfare Officer/ Tehsil Social Welfare Officer/Social Worker of the Department at Leh/Kargil
Step 4: Request a receipt or acknowledgment from the District Social Welfare Officer/ Tehsil Social Welfare Officer/Social Worker of the Department at Leh/Kargil to whom the application has been submitted. Ensure that the receipt contains essential details such as the date and time of submission, and a unique identification number (if applicable). For more information, please refer to: Guidelines: https://ladakh.gov.in/divyangjans-to-get-1lakh-financial-assistance-for-marriage-ladakh-amends-the-state-marriage-assistance-scheme/ Application Form: https://helphub.ladakh.gov.in/uploads/state-marriage/SMASForm.pdf Tags associated with the scheme include: Differently-abled Person, Female, Financial Assistance, Marriage.