The name of this welfare scheme is Computer Training Scheme. It is also known as CTS. The Uttar Pradesh government has started computer courses. Under this program, the applicant will receive authorized training in computers. The implementation of this scheme will help the UP state government to reach out to the eligible candidates and provide computer literacy to them. It will not only enhance the education system but also increase the scope of opportunity for the candidates.
&lt;br&gt;

Guidelines/conditions for trainee
Trainees will be selected based on the percentage gained in the Intermediate examination against the district-wise target and remaining eligible applicants will be kept on the waiting list.   Applicants will be allotted with the institutes among selected institutes in the district according to the preferences given based on online options and as per the determined institute-wise target.  Trainees undergoing the training are required to accept the following conditions:-

   1. Applicants who are applying for Computer Training Scheme, being operated by the Backward Classes Welfare Department, are not getting the benefits of any other government-run scheme like Scholarship/Fee reimbursement etc.
   1. Students selected under the Computer Training Scheme (‘O’ Level and ‘CCC’) will be registered and given the training free of cost by the institution. The training fees will be paid to the concerned institution by Backward Classes Welfare Department according to the norms in vogue.   Students need not pay any fee to the institute on account of registration and training.  The examination fee for any examination conducted by the NIELIT (National Institute of Electronics and Information Technology), will have to pay by the trainee to ‘NIELIT’ in online mode. 
   1. If a trainee leaves training before completion without any suitable cause, she/he will be required to pay a registration fee to the government and she/he will not be eligible for the above scheme in the future.
   1. 75% biometric attendance of trainees will be compulsory during the training session. If any trainee makes herself/himself absent for more than 15 or more days without any suitable reason/information, she/he will be replaced by the candidate from the waiting list.  In such a case, the trainee wouldn’t claim anymore.
   1. A trainee will be eligible for once only to get the benefit of ‘O’ Level/’CCC’ computer training scheme, being operated by the Department of Backward Classes Welfare.   
   1. A trainee will be eligible for an ‘O’ level course in the next financial year after she/he clears ‘CCC’ computer training but once a trainee avails the benefit of this scheme, she/he will not be selected again for ‘O’ Level/’CCC’. The scheme targets beneficiaries such as Individual. It is specifically implemented in Uttar Pradesh. Additionally, the nodal department is Backward Welfare Department.

The scheme provides the following benefits: Course Details
S. No. Training Name DurationFee1For ‘O’ computer training1 monthA maximum upto Rs. 15,000/per trainee (In three phases)2For ‘CCC’ computer training3 monthsA maximum upto Rs. 3,500/per trainee

Eligibility criteria include: Domicile of Uttar Pradesh.
Unemployed youth who passed the Intermediate examination (10+2).
The annual income of parents/guardians should be up to Rs. 1,00,000/or less. The application process is as follows: First of all, the trainee has to log in on the official website http://obccomputertraining.upsdc.gov.in Trainee should enter his/her name and mobile number for registration.
Trainee should enter the OTP in the appropriate box for verification, which is received on the registered mobile number.
The trainee should log in with the username and password, which was received on the mobile number.
The trainee should log in after entering a username, password, and captcha code in the appropriate fields
After login, the trainee should enter the information in the appropriate columns and upload the documents (Income Certificate, Caste Certificate, Intermediate Marks Sheet, selfphotograph, etc.)
Trainee should finally lock the application after save.
Trainee should take the printout of the application form, attach all the enclosures and submit the same to the office of the District Backward Classes Welfare Officer of the concerned district. For more information, please refer to: Guidelines: https://www.backwardwelfareup.gov.in/en/page/computer-training-scheme Registration: obccomputertraining.upsdc.gov.in Tags associated with the scheme include: Education, Training, Unemployment, Youth Empowerment.