The name of this welfare scheme is Thayi Magu Sahaya Hastha (K.B.O.C.W.W.B). It is also known as TMSHKBOCWWB. The &amp;quot;Thayi Magu Sahaya Hastha&amp;#39;&amp;#39; by the BOCW Welfare Board, Department of Labour, Karnataka, is a welfare scheme for the registered workers of the board. Under this Scheme, financial support shall be provided to registered women construction workers for pre-school education and nutritional support of their child for up to 3 years after delivery. Assistance can be availed for up to 2 children.
&lt;br&gt; The scheme targets beneficiaries such as Individual. It is specifically implemented in Karnataka. Additionally, the nodal department is Labour Department.

The scheme provides the following benefits: Financial Assistance: ₹6,000/(at the rate of ₹500/per month).

Eligibility criteria include: &gt; For Registration as a Building/ Construction Worker:


  The applicant should be a Building/ Construction Worker (Unorganised Worker).
  The applicant should be a minimum of 18 years of age.
  The applicant should have engaged in building and construction work for at least 90 days in a given year.

&gt; For the Application of the Welfare Scheme:


  The applicant should be a registered woman construction worker Under the Building and Other Construction Workers Welfare Board of Karnataka.
  The child must be under 3 years of age.
  The assistance is available for the first 2 children only. The application process is as follows: &gt; Registration Process as a Building/ Construction Worker:

Step 1: Visit the official Website of Karnataka Building &amp;amp; Other Construction Workers Welfare Board (KBOCWWB) and click on “Register”.
Step 2: Select “Register as New Construction Worker” then enter your mobile number as per the Aadhaar Registered and verify with the received OTP.
Step 3: From the dashboard, click on “Registration”.
Step 4: Fill in all the mandatory details and upload the required documents. Click on “Final Submit” to complete the registration process.
&gt; Application Process of the Welfare Scheme:

Step 1: Visit the official Website of Karnataka Building &amp;amp; Other Construction Workers Welfare Board (KBOCWWB) and click on “Login”.
Step 2: Enter your registered mobile number and the received OTP.
Step 3: From the dashboard, click on “Schemes” (After the user Registration is approved, the user can access the schemes page).
Step 4: Select the concerned scheme. Fill in all the mandatory details and upload the required documents.
Step 5:  Review the details and check the declaration box. Now click on “Submit” to complete the application process.
&gt; Renewal Process:

Step 1: Visit the official Website of Karnataka Building &amp;amp; Other Construction Workers Welfare Board (KBOCWWB) and click on “Login”.
Step 2: Enter your registered mobile number and the received OTP.
Step 3: From the dashboard, click on “Renewal”. Fill in mandatory details and upload the required documents.
Step 4: Review the details and click on “Submit” to complete the renewal process.
&gt; Note:


  Renewal: Every construction worker must renew their registration with the Karnataka Building and Other Construction Workers Welfare Board every 3 years. If not renewed within this period, a 1year grace period is granted. After that, the registration becomes invalid.   Timeline:
  Application can be submitted within 6 months of delivery.
  Application can be submitted every year (up to 3 years).
  Child living Affidavit shall be submitted for second and third year.

&gt; Helpdesk:

Karnataka Building And Other Construction Workers Welfare Board,
Address: Karmika Bhavan, Dairy Circle, Bannerghatta Road, BangaloreOffice No: 08029753078
Email: labour.commissioner42@gmail.com
List of District Office.
List of Taluk Offices. For more information, please refer to: Guidelines: https://kbocwwb.karnataka.gov.in/thayimagu Guidelines (For Registration): https://karbwwb.karnataka.gov.in/42/schemes/en User Manual: https://kbocwwb.karnataka.gov.in/static/media/user_manual_eng.c0bc6338.pdf Tags associated with the scheme include: Building Worker, Child, Construction Worker, Education, Labour, Pre-school, Women.