The name of this welfare scheme is Bihar Student Credit Card Scheme. It is also known as BSCCS. The Department of Education introduced a scheme named &amp;quot;Bihar Student Credit Card Scheme&amp;quot;. Its aim is to provide financial aid to students to complete their higher education. In this scheme, the students can avail loans of up to ₹4 lakhs at minimal interest rates. They can utilize these funds for financing courses like B.Sc, B.A, B.Tech, or MBBS. This scheme is specifically for all those students who are interested in pursuing higher education but due to lack of financial resources, they are not able to pursue the same. The scheme targets beneficiaries such as Individual. It is specifically implemented in Bihar. Additionally, the nodal department is Education Department.

The scheme provides the following benefits: The eligible students will get the following benefits under this scheme:A maximum loan amount of ₹4 lakh.
   Loan can be availed for polytechnic, technical and general courses.
   This assistance may be utilized for purchasing of books and laptops or pay any kind of fees.
   Repayment of the loan starts once the course has been completed and student have secured a job.
   The interest rate of the loan is 1% for Divyang, transgender, and girl students.
   The recovery procedures are flexible since the loan is governmentowned.

Eligibility criteria include: The applicant must be a resident of Bihar state and should be at least 25 years.
   The applicant must have passed the class 12th.
   The applicant must get admission to a course in an authorized institute.
   The applicant must complete the entire course. The application process is as follows: Visit https://www.7nishchayyuvaupmission.bihar.gov.in/ website.   Click the ‘New Applicant Registration’ button.
   Fill the details, such as name, email ID, mobile number, Aadhaar number, and OTP and click the ‘Submit’ button.
   A successful registration message will be displayed, and the applicants will receive the username and password by email and SMS.
   Visit the https://www.7nishchayyuvaupmission.bihar.gov.in/ website and log in using the username and password.    Fill the details on the ‘Personal Information Page’ and click the ‘Submit’ button.
   Selects the ‘BSCC’ option from the dropdown list and click the ‘Apply’ button.
   Fill in the details on the BSCC form and submit it. A confirmation message and the acknowledgement number will be displayed. 
   The respective District Registration and Counseling Center (DRCC) will schedule an appointment and send an email and SMS informing the applicant about the date of the visit to the DRCC.
   The applicant should visit the DRCC with selfattested documents and submit them to the MultiPurpose Assistant (MPA) for verification. 
   After verification by the concerned authorities and loan sanction by the bank, the DRCC will send an SMS and email to the applicant informing the date the applicant should visit the DRCC to collect the ‘Student Credit Card’ and sanction letter of the loan.
   The applicant should visit the bank to complete the documentation formalities after collecting the ‘Student Credit Card’ and the bank’s sanction letter from the DRCC.
   The applicant will get the loan disbursement from the bank, and bank officials will inform the same to the DRCC. 
   The applicants can also track their application status on https://www.7nishchayyuvaupmission.bihar.gov.in/addapplicationStatus. For more information, please refer to: Guidelines: https://www.7nishchay-yuvaupmission.bihar.gov.in/resources/Guideline.pdf Process Flow: https://www.7nishchay-yuvaupmission.bihar.gov.in/resources/Process_Flow_for_BSCC.pdf FAQ: https://www.7nishchay-yuvaupmission.bihar.gov.in/faq Tags associated with the scheme include: Educational Loan, Financial Assistance, Higher Education, Student Empowerment.