The name of this welfare scheme is Maintenance Allowance for Leprosy Affected Persons. It is also known as MAFLAP. The Department for the Welfare of Differently Abled Persons, Government of Tamil Nadu, recognizes the enduring challenges faced by individuals affected by leprosy. In response, the government has established the Maintenance Allowance Scheme for Leprosy Affected Persons. This program aims to provide vital financial support to improve the well-being and standard of living for those living with the after-effects of leprosy. The scheme targets beneficiaries such as Individual. It is specifically implemented in Tamil Nadu. Additionally, the nodal department is Welfare of Differently Abled Persons Department.

The scheme provides the following benefits: Financial Assistance of ₹2,000/per month. 
> NOTE: The allowance is sent through ECS to their bank account directly from the Treasury.

Eligibility criteria include: The applicant should be leprosy affected with deformity of 40% and above.
The beneficiaries should not receive any other pension benefit of Tamil Nadu. The application process is as follows: Step 1: The interested applicant should visit (during office hours) the District Differently Abled Welfare Office and request a hard copy of the prescribed format of the application form from the staff exclusively entrusted to issue and collect filledin applications.
Step 2: In the application form, fill in all the mandatory fields, and attach copies of all the mandatory documents (selfattest, if required).
Step 3: Submit the duly filled and signed application form along with the documents to the District Differently Abled Welfare Officer.
Step 4: Request a receipt or acknowledgment from the District Differently Abled Welfare Officer to whom the application has been submitted. Ensure that the receipt contains essential details such as the date and time of submission, and a unique identification number (if applicable). For more information, please refer to: Citizen's Charter (2022): https://cms.tn.gov.in/sites/default/files/documents/wda_e_cc_2022_23.pdf Tags associated with the scheme include: Disability, Financial Assistance, Leprosy, Monthly Allowance, Social Welfare.