The name of this welfare scheme is Fee Waiver Scheme For SC/ST Students Pursuing Higher Education. It is also known as FWSSCSTSPHE. &quot;Fee Waiver Scheme for SC/ST Students Pursuing Higher Education&quot; is a Fee Waiver Scheme by the Department of Education, Art &amp; Culture, Government of Goa. This Scheme is framed in order to provide free access to every SC/ST student, to the institutions of higher learning. It shall be the endeavour of the Government to see that no eligible SC/ST students are deprived of higher education for want of resources. The Scheme is operated by Directorate of Higher Education for the students pursuing the courses of General Education and by Directorate of Technical Education for students pursuing Technical Education at the degree and post graduate level. The scheme targets beneficiaries such as Individual. It is specifically implemented in Goa. Additionally, the nodal department is Education Department.

The scheme provides the following benefits: A full waiver of the fees supposed to have been paid by them in the institutions where they have sought admissions. 
The amount fee waiver shall consist of Tuition fees, Library fees, Laboratory fees and Development fees, if any.

NOTE: All other charges and fees would be borne by the concerned student.

Eligibility criteria include: The applicant should have been born in Goa or resident of Goa for at least last fifteen years.
The applicant should have passed his/her qualifying examination from any of the institutions located in Goa.
The applicant should belong to the SC/ST Community of Goa.
The applicant should be enrolled for the First Year of their Degree/PG Courses. The application process is as follows: Step 1: Take a print of the proforma of the application form, or request a hard copy from the concerned authority at the institution.
Step 2: In the application form, fill in all the mandatory fields, paste the passportsized photograph (signed across), and attach copies of all the mandatory documents (selfattest if required).
Step 3: At the time of admission, submit the duly filled and signed application form along with the documents to the concerned authority.
Step 4: The concerned Institution shall process the applications of all such beneficiaries and sanction the fee waiver to them right at the time of admission itself. For more information, please refer to: Guidelines: https://www.goa.gov.in/wp-content/uploads/2019/10/Dayanand-Bandodkar-Scheme-for-Orphans.pdf Tags associated with the scheme include: Education, Scheduled Caste, Scheduled Tribe, Scholarship, Student.