The name of this welfare scheme is Livestock Health and Diseases Control. It is also known as LHADC. Objectives 
To implement Critical Animal disease control programme to eradicate PPR by 2030 by vaccinating all sheep and goats and to control Classical Swine Fever (CSF) by vaccinating the entire pig population To provide veterinary services at the farmers’ doorstep through Mobile Veterinary Units (MVUs) To assist States/UTs for Control of Animal Disease (ASCAD) by prevention &amp;amp; control of important livestock and poultry diseases prevalent in different States / UTs as per the State /UT’s priorities.
&lt;br&gt;

The LH&amp;amp;DC scheme covers a following activities:

  - Prophylactic vaccination programmes against various livestock and poultry diseases.
  - Disease surveillance and early detection.
  - Control and eradication of livestock diseases.
  - Capacity building of veterinary personnel.
  - Strengthening of veterinary infrastructure.

&lt;br&gt;

Critical Animal Disease Control Programme 

   1. Peste des Petits Ruminants Eradication Programme (PPR-EP).
   1. Classical Swine Fever Control Programme (CSF-CP).

&lt;br&gt;

Scheme Implementation Strategy 

   1. State / UT to identify and designate suitable agency as SIA / LDB (preferably same as in NADCP).
   1. State / UT / SIA shall develop further guidelines for implementation of the Scheme delineating roles and responsibilities of all functionaries at different levels. The scheme targets beneficiaries such as Individual. Additionally, the nodal ministry is Ministry of Fisheries,Animal Husbandry and Dairying and the nodal department is Department of Animal Husbandry & Dairying.

The scheme provides the following benefits: Improved animal health and productivity: To protect livestock from diseases, which leads to improved animal health and productivity.Reduced economic losses: To reduce economic losses to farmers due to livestock diseases.Improved food security: To improve food security by ensuring a steady supply of livestock products.Increased employment opportunities: To increased employment opportunities in the livestock sector.Improved rural livelihood: To improve the livelihoods of rural people who depend on livestock for their income.

Eligibility criteria include: Beneficiary must be a bona fide farmer or livestock owner.
Beneficiary must have a valid livestock ownership document.
Beneficiary&#39;s livestock must be used for commercial purposes. The application process is as follows: Contact local veterinary office or the Department of Animal Husbandry and Dairying in state.
Get the application form.
Fill out the application form with required details.
Submit it to the concerned authority.
Attach the required documents. For more information, please refer to: Guideline: https://dahd.nic.in/sites/default/filess/2853-LHDC-10-08-2022-F-E_.pdf Tags associated with the scheme include: Animal Health, Animal Husbandry, Livestock Diseases.