The name of this welfare scheme is Educational Award Scheme - Gujarat Labour Welfare Board. It is also known as EAS-GLWB. The “Educational Award Scheme” is implemented by the Gujarat Labour Welfare Board, Labour, Skill Development &amp;amp; Employment Department, Government of Gujarat. The scheme has been implemented to encourage the students of the Labours to increase their enthusiasm and to get higher education through it. The scheme targets beneficiaries such as Individual. It is specifically implemented in Gujarat. The implementing agency is Gujarat Labour Welfare Board. Additionally, the nodal department is Labour and Employment Department.

The scheme provides the following benefits: Under the scheme, children of laborers who have passed 70% or above marks in the 10th Standard will receive ₹2,500/as an award.
   The children of laborers who have passed 70% or above marks in the 12th Standard will receive ₹5,000/as an award.

Eligibility criteria include: Only the children (students) whose parents are working in a factory/institute in the state of Gujarat and whose parents have been paying the Labour Welfare Fund will be eligible for this scheme.
   The children of labourers who have passed 70% and above marks in the 10th or 12th Standard can avail the benefits under the scheme. The application process is as follows: Step 01: The applicant may visit the Sanman Portal: https://sanman.gujarat.gov.in/
Step 02: On the home page, under the tab ‘Citizen Login’, click on ‘Please Register Here’.
Step 03: Enter your Aadhaar Card Number, select user type, and then enter Labour Welfare Fund Account Number.
Step 04: Now, click on ‘Fetch’ &amp;amp; verify the details.
Step 05: Enter user details and Password.
Step 06: After successful registration, the applicants can login through their User ID and Password.
Step 07: Now, select the scheme and read the instructions carefully for the selected scheme.
Step 08: Fill out the application form and upload all the relevant documents.
Step 09: Agree with the Rules &amp;amp; Regulations and submit the application form. A confirmation email with the application Number will be sent on the registered email ID. For more information, please refer to: Official Website: https://glwb.gujarat.gov.in/educational-award-scheme.htm Sanman Portal: https://sanman.gujarat.gov.in/ Scheme Details (Page No. 364): https://planning.gujarat.gov.in/images/pdf/dp-eng-22-23.pdf Tags associated with the scheme include: Award, Education, Labour, Student.