The name of this welfare scheme is Financial Assistance for Education- Haryana Silicosis Board. It is also known as FAE-HSB. The “Financial Assistance for Education” scheme is implemented by the Haryana Labour Welfare Board, Government of Haryana. Under this scheme, financial assistance of ₹5,000/- to ₹12,000/- per year is given to the children of workers who are suffering from silicosis as confirmed by the Silicosis Diagnosis Board, Haryana. Assistance is provided to children studying from Class I to Master’s Degree, with assistance available for up to two boys and up to three girls of the affected workers, irrespective of the order of birth.
Note: Silicosis, an incurable lung disease prevalent in workplaces like stone crushers and mines, is a notifiable disease in Haryana under the Factories Act, of 1948, and the Building and Other Construction Workers (RE &amp;amp; CS) Act, of 1996. Upon confirmation by the Silicosis Diagnosis Board, affected workers are swiftly referred to hospitals for treatment; those under the Employee State Insurance Act, 1948 receive care at ESI hospitals, while others are provided free treatment at district hospitals and medical colleges by the Health Department, with the option for reimbursement for necessary resources unavailable locally, facilitated by the Labour Department.
Symptoms of Silicosis:
•	Associated with T.B  
•	Shortness of breath  
•	Fatigue 
•	Loss of appetite (Anorexia).  
•	Chest pain; dry with non-productive cough (Whooping Cough). 
•	Respiratory failure
•	Eventually leads to death The scheme targets beneficiaries such as Family. It is specifically implemented in Haryana. The implementing agency is Haryana Labour Welfare Board, Government Of Haryana. Additionally, the nodal department is Labour Department.

The scheme provides the following benefits: Under this scheme, financial assistance for education will be given to the children of workers at the following rates:

Sl. No.Class/CourseAmount of Assistance (Per year)1Class 15₹5,000/2Class 68₹6,000/3Class 910₹8,000/4Class 1112 ₹10,000/5ITI Diploma/Graduation/PostGraduation₹12,000/

Eligibility criteria include: The applicant/worker should be employed in a factory or at a construction site.
   The worker who is suffering from silicosis as confirmed by the Silicosis Diagnosis Board, Haryana are eligible to apply under this scheme for their children.
   The worker should be registered with the Haryana Silicosis Board.
   The children of workers should be studying in a class ranging from Class I to Master’s Degree.
   Assistance will be available for up to two boys and up to three girls of affected workers, regardless of the order of birth of the children. The application process is as follows: &gt; Registration under the Haryana Silicosis Board:

Step 01: The applicant may visit the nearest Labour Office and collect the application form. The Application Performa (Annexure I.pdf)) may also be downloaded from the Official Website of the Labour Department Haryana.
Step 02: Fill out the application form with all required details, ensuring accuracy and completeness.
Step 03: Attach all necessary documents, including medical certificates, proof of identity, etc.
Step 04: Submit the filled application form along with supporting documents to the Assistant Director, Industrial Health of your concerned jurisdiction.
Step 05: The Assistant Director will review the application and then forward it to the Office of the Labour CommissionercumWelfare Commissioner, Haryana.
Step 06: Await notification from the Labour Department, Haryana regarding the approval or any further requirements for your application.
Step 07: Upon approval, the applicant will receive their registration details.
&gt; Apply for scheme benefits:

Step 01: The applicant may visit the nearest Labour Office and collect the application form. The Application Performa (Annexure VII.pdf)) may also be downloaded from the Official Website of the Labour Department Haryana.
Step 02: Fill out the application form with all required details, ensuring accuracy and completeness.
Step 03: Attach all necessary documents, including medical certificates, proof of identity, and the certificate of being the widow/widower or nominee, if applicable etc.
Step 04: Submit the filled application form along with supporting documents to the Assistant Director, Industrial Health of your concerned jurisdiction.
Step 05: The Assistant Director will review the application and then forward it to the Office of the Labour CommissionercumWelfare Commissioner, Haryana.
Step 06: Await notification from the Labour Department regarding the approval or any further requirements for your application.
Step 07: Upon approval, the financial assistance will be processed and provided to the applicant as per the scheme&amp;#39;s guidelines. &gt; Registration under the Haryana Silicosis Board :

Step 01: The applicant should visit the Official Website of the Labour Department Haryana.
Step 02: On the home page, click on the “Silicosis Board Beneficiary Login”, a new window page will be opened. If you don&amp;#39;t have login details then click on “Click Here” to register.
Step 03: Fill in all the required details, upload all necessary documents and provide your work experience.
Step 04: Agree with the declaration and click on the ‘continue’ button to submit the registration form.
Step 05: Verify your mobile number with the OTP which is sent to your mobile.
Step 06: A confirmation page will appear on the screen. The ‘User ID’ &amp;amp; ‘Password’ will be sent to the applicant via SMS.
Step 07: After the final submission, you can log into your account using your username and password.
&gt; Apply for scheme benefits:

To avail of the benefits of the scheme, the eligible applicant may visit the nearest Antyodaya Kendra and fill up the application form. For more information, please refer to: Notification- English: https://hrylabour.gov.in/staticdocs/labourpolicies/Haryana%20Silicosis%20Rehabilitation%20Policy%20(English).pdf Notification- Hindi: https://hrylabour.gov.in/uploads/silicosis/Haryana_Silicosis_Rehabilitation_Policy.pdf Official Website: https://hrylabour.gov.in/ Tags associated with the scheme include: Education, Financial Assistance, Silicosis, Student, Worker.