The name of this welfare scheme is One Time Cash Incentive towards acquiring BEd, BPEd, DTEd, PGDCA (Sainik Welfare). It is also known as OTCA-BBDP-SW. &quot;One Time Cash Incentive towards acquiring BEd, BPEd, DTEd, PGDCA&quot; is a Welfare Scheme by the Armed Forces Flag Day Fund of the Department of Sainik Welfare, Puducherry. Through this scheme, up to ₹20,000/- is provided to the unemployed Ex-servicemen to pursue the mentioned programs/courses from Government-recognized Schools/Institutions, upon prior permission from the Department. The application should be submitted offline within three months from the date of successful completion of the course. The scheme targets beneficiaries such as Individual. It is specifically implemented in Puducherry. The implementing agency is Rajya Sainik Board, Puducherry. Additionally, the nodal department is Sainik Welfare Department, Puducherry.

The scheme provides the following benefits: The actual cost of the program/course or ₹20,000/is provided to the ESM.
The amount, as decided by the Management Committee, is credited to the beneficiary’s Bank Account through RTGS/ NEFT.

Eligibility criteria include: The applicant should be an Exserviceman.The applicant should be registered with the Department of Sainik Welfare, Puducherry.

The applicant should be unemployed.
The applicant should have obtained prior permission from the Department of Sainik Welfare, Puducherry.
The applicant should apply within three years of discharge from service.
The course/program should be done from a Governmentrecognized School/Institution.
The course/program should be one of the following Bachelor of Education (BEd)
Bachelor of Physical Education (BPEd)
Diploma in Teacher Education (DTEd)
Post Graduate Diploma in Computer Applications (PGDCA) The application process is as follows: Step 1: The interested applicant should visit (on a working day, and during working hours) the Rajya Sainik Board, Jawan Bhawan, Department of Sainik Welfare, Government of Puducherry, 261, Lawspet Main Road, Pakkamudianpet, Puducherry Road, Lawspet, Puducherry 605013, India, and request a hard copy of the prescribed format of the application form from the concerned authority.
Step 2: In the application form, fill in all the mandatory fields, paste the passportsized photograph (signed across, if required), and attach copies of all the mandatory documents (selfattest, if required).
Step 3: The interested applicant should submit the duly filled and signed application form and the documents to the concerned authority at the Rajya Sainik Board.
Step 4: A receipt of the application will be assigned to the applicant by the concerned authority.
The application should be submitted within three months from the date of successful completion of the course.


> Queries/Complaints/Suggestions/Grievances

Address: 261, Lawspet Main Road, Pakkamudianpet, Puducherry Road, Lawspet, Puducherry 605013, India
Phone Number: (+91)(0413) 2253107
Email: dirdsw.pon@nic.in
Hours: Monday Friday, 2:30 pm to 5:00 pm For more information, please refer to: Guidelines: https://sainik.py.gov.in/assistance-affd-fund Government Order: https://sainik.py.gov.in/sites/default/files/g.o.ms.22-dated-24-feb-2020.pdf Contact Us: https://sainik.py.gov.in/contact-us Tags associated with the scheme include: Cash, Education, Ex-Serviceman, Incentive, Student.