The name of this welfare scheme is Disha - Early Intervention and School Readiness Scheme. It is also known as DEISRS. Disha-Early Intervention and School Readiness Scheme was launched by the Department of Empowerment of Persons with Disabilities , Ministry of Social Justice and Empowerment. Govt. of India.This scheme aims at setting up Disha Centres for early intervention for Person with Disability (PwD) in 0-10 years of age covered under the National Trust Act, through therapies, trainings and providing support to family members. The scheme targets beneficiaries such as Individual. The implementing agency is Department Of Empowerment Of Persons With Disabilities. Additionally, the nodal ministry is Ministry Of Social Justice and Empowerment and the nodal department is Department Of Empowerment Of Persons With Disabilities.

The scheme provides the following benefits: Day Care: Daycare facilities to PwD for at least 4 hours in a day.Staffing: Provision of Therapies, trainings and providing support to family members.Counselling: Counselling and guidance especially for Activities for Daily Living (ADL) must be provided to parents or guardians of PwD with regular followups by RO to ensure that parents or guardians attend a minimum number of counselling sessions.Transport Facilities: Registered Organisations can also provide transportation facilities to PwD in case it is mutually suitable for both. Assessment and Evaluation: PwD should be assessed and evaluated by experts in the related field on a regular basis to understand their individual needs and also to monitor the progress of the PwD.

Eligibility criteria include: Following are the eligibility criteria that a PwD should have to be enrolled under Disha Centre:

PwD should be in the age group of 010 years.
PwD should have one of the disabilities covered under the National Trust Act, 1999, which are Autism, Cerebral Palsy, Mental Retardation and Multiple Disabilities. The application process is as follows: Enrolment of PwD at the Disha Centre/Registered Organization:

Applicant PwD visits Disha Centre with parents/guardian and required documentsDisha Centre conducts PwD Assessment Test:

   Fit for school: Guidance provided; parents choose school or Disha Centre, exit if not interested.
   Parents interested in Disha Centre proceed to the next step.

Concerned RO checks LIG/BPL funding eligibility; National Trust generally funds based on RO information, with verification if needed.
Parents/guardians submit Enrolment Form with required documents; RO maintains separate files for each PwD.
Upon successful verification, PwD enrolled at Disha Centre; confirmation ID card/starter kit provided. Details explained by Disha representatives.
Disha Representatives provide insight on Niramaya health insurance; assist with PwD registration if parents are interested. For more information, please refer to: Guidelines: https://thenationaltrust.gov.in/upload/uploadfiles/files/disha_eng.pdf Details: https://thenationaltrust.gov.in/content/scheme/disha.php List Of Registered Centers: https://thenationaltrust.gov.in/content/centre-sanctioned-list.php Tags associated with the scheme include: Child, Counselling, Person With Disability, Special Care.