The name of this welfare scheme is Adi Dravidar and Tribal Welfare Department-Incentive/Award of Prizes. It is also known as ADTWDIAP. The scheme “Adi Dravidar and Tribal Welfare Department-Incentive/Award of Prizes” by the Adi Dravidar and Tribal Welfare Department, Tamil Nadu, provides district-level prizes to students based on their performance in the 10th and 12th standard examinations. The incentives are given to one Boy and one Girl each from Adi Dravidar/ Tribal/ Adi Dravidar Converted to Christianity who have secured the highest mark. The scheme targets beneficiaries such as Individual. It is specifically implemented in Tamil Nadu. Additionally, the nodal department is Adi Dravidar and Tribal Welfare Department.

The scheme provides the following benefits: 10+2 Examination: ₹3,000/.  10th Std. First Prize: ₹1,000/.  10th Std. Second Prize: ₹5,00/.  10th Std. Third Prize: ₹3,00/.

Eligibility criteria include: The beneficiary should be a Student.
  The beneficiary should be a resident of Tamil Nadu.
  The beneficiary should belong to the Adi Dravidar/ Tribal/ Adi Dravidar (converted to Christianity) community.
  The beneficiary should have secured the highest marks in 10th or 12th standard exams within the district. The application process is as follows: Step 1: The interested applicant should collect the application form from the office of the District Adi Dravidar and Tribal Welfare Officer.
Step 2: In the application form, fill in all the mandatory fields, paste the passportsized photograph (signed across, if required), and attach copies of all the mandatory documents (selfattest, if required).
Step 3: Submit the duly filled and signed application form along with the documents to the concerned authority.
Step 4: Request a receipt or acknowledgment from the concerned authority to whom the application has been submitted. Ensure that the receipt contains essential details such as the date and time of submission and a unique identification number (if applicable).
&lt;br&gt; For more information, please refer to: Guidelines: https://www.tn.gov.in/scheme/data_view/83082 Tags associated with the scheme include: Adi Dravidar, Education, Financial Assistance, Students, Tribal Welfare.