The name of this welfare scheme is Mukhyamantri Avivahita Pension Yojana. It is also known as MAPS. Madhya Pradesh government has started the &#39;Mukhyamantri Avivahit Pension Yojana &#39; under the Department of Social Justice and Empowerment of Persons with Disabilities to help those women who have not married for some reason. Such women are alone and live their life. The government will provide a pension of ₹ 600 every month, which will help them to run their lives easily. With this, they will not be dependent on anyone else for their work and will be able to live happily. 
With this, women will be able to create a brighter future and improve their lives without any hassle. Under Madhya Pradesh Chief Minister Married Women Pension Scheme, unmarried women above 50 years of age have been included, so that they can improve their social status and economic status. The scheme targets beneficiaries such as Individual. It is specifically implemented in Madhya Pradesh. Additionally, the nodal department is Department of Social Justice and Empowerment of Persons with Disabilities.

The scheme provides the following benefits: Pension amount: ₹ 600/per month.

Eligibility criteria include: Applicants should be a native of Madhya Pradesh State.
The applicants should be Unmarried women. 
Applicant&#39;s age should be 50 years or more
Applicants should not be income taxpayers.
Applicants should not be a government employee/officer (government employee/officer means state or central government or governmentaided corporation, undertaking, is from the employees/officers working under the organization.) 
Applicants should not be honorary employees working in government/nongovernment offices. The application process is as follows: Step 1: The applicant can apply in the prescribed format along with the necessary documents for the scheme in the office of the designated officer, Gram Panchayat, or Public Service Center.
Step 2: Offline On submitting the complete application, the applicant will be compulsorily given an acknowledgment by the office
Step 3: the documents submitted along with the application will be scrutinized by the District Panchayat/ Gram Panchayat/ Urban Body/ Ward Office. 
Step 4: After investigation, if the documents are not found correct, according to the rules, the application will be canceled along with the reason and information will be given to the applicant in writing and the rejection order will be given. Will be maintained in the record. 
Step 5:  After investigation, if the documents are found correct, the pension case will be approved according to the rules.
Step 6: Once the pension is approved, the beneficiary&#39;s name will be added to the pension proposal in the said month by the District Panchayat/Gram Panchayat/Urban Body/Ward Office, and the approved order will be maintained in the record. 
Step 7: The amount will be deposited directly into the bank savings account of the beneficiary every month from the said month through a single click by the Directorate. Step 1: Applicants have to visit the official portal.
Step 2: Click on the &quot;Online Apply for Pension Scheme&quot;.
Step 3: Select District, Local Area and enter  Samagram ID. 
Step 4: Select the online apply option.
Step 5: Fill out the application form. 
Step 6: Upload the required documents.
Step 7: Submit. For more information, please refer to: Guidelines: https://cmhelpline.mp.gov.in/Schmedetail.aspx?Schemeid=572 Tags associated with the scheme include: Empowerment, Financial Assistance, Unmarried.