The name of this welfare scheme is Cycle Distribution Scheme. It is also known as CDS. The scheme &amp;quot;Cycle Distribution Scheme&amp;quot; is implemented by the Tribal Affairs Department, Government of Madhya Pradesh, aims to provide cycles to village girls students to continue their education. Under this scheme, tribal girl students in Class 11th who travel more than 2 km to reach school and did not receive a bicycle in Class 9th are given a cash amount equivalent to the cost of a bicycle.
Objective:
The objective of the scheme is to reduce the dropout rate and promote the continuation of education for scheduled tribe girls in higher secondary schools. It aims to ensure that all scheduled tribe girls in the state continue their education beyond class 10, even if they need to enroll in higher secondary schools located in other villages. The scheme targets beneficiaries such as Individual. It is specifically implemented in Madhya Pradesh. The implementing agency is Tribal Affairs Department, Government Of Madhya Pradesh. Additionally, the nodal department is Tribal Welfare and Scheduled Caste (SC) Department.

The scheme provides the following benefits: Under this scheme, a cash amount equal to the cost of the cycle credited directly to the bank account of the applicant.

Eligibility criteria include: The applicant should be a girl student.
   The girl student should be a native of Madhya Pradesh.
   The girl student should be studying in Class The girl student should belong to the Scheduled Tribe category.
   The girl student who did not receive a cycle in Class 9 is eligible under the scheme.
   The girl student should travel more than 2 km to reach her school.
   There is no restriction on the annual family income of the student. The application process is as follows: To avail of the benefits under this scheme, eligible girl students can contact the District Convener/Assistant Commissioner, the District Office of the Tribal Welfare Department, or the Principal of the concerned school/institution.

Note: The District Collector has the right to approve financial assistance to eligible girl students under the cycle supply scheme. For more information, please refer to: Scheme Details: https://cmhelpline.mp.gov.in/KnowYourEntitleDetail.aspx?Schemeid=813 Guidelines (Page No. 85): https://aiggpa.mp.gov.in/uploads/publication/Social_Protection_Eng.pdf Tags associated with the scheme include: Bicycle, Cycle, Girl Student, Scheduled Tribe.