The name of this welfare scheme is Rajiv Gandhi Scholarship For Academic Excellence. It is also known as RGSFSAE. Hon’ble Chief Minister of Rajasthan Sh. Ashok Gehlot announced this scheme on 20th August 2021 in commemoration of late Shri Rajiv Gandhi, former Prime Minister of India. In order to provide financial assistance to meritorious students of Rajasthan to study in top foreign universities of the world. 
Objective:

1. To assist students of Rajasthan financially to pursue higher studies in the top 150 QS World Universities
1. International exposure to students for their career development. 
1. To give priority to students having gross family income less than 8 lakh rupees/annum.
1. To provide better opportunities to female students by earmarking 30 % seats (Income category-wise). The scheme targets beneficiaries such as Individual. It is specifically implemented in Rajasthan. Additionally, the nodal department is Technical Education Department.

The scheme provides the following benefits: E1: Family gross annual income less than 8 Lakh
(i). Tuition Fees and Bench fee: Max 50 lakh
(ii). Living Expenses: 12 Lakh Rupees.
(iii). Onetime advance of Rs 3 Lakh to candidates who will start their course after application on the portal (adjusted against living expenses).
E2: Family gross annual income 8 – 25 Lakh
(i). Tuition Fees and Bench fee: Max 50 lakh
(ii). Living Expenses: 6 Lakh Rupees
E3: Family gross annual income above 25 Lakh
(i). Tuition Fees and Bench fee: Max 50 lakh
(ii). No Living Expenses

Eligibility criteria include: Bonafide Resident of Rajasthan. 
Less than 35 years of age on 1st July 2023
Admitted / Obtained offer letter in top 150 World QS ranked Universities as of 1st April, 2023
All disciplines for UG, PG, PhD and Post Doc courses.
Maximum 5 % seats ( 37 ) for Engineering, Architecture, Medical, Dentistry courses at UG level The application process is as follows: Applicant to log in to RajSSO Portal using his/her SSOID.If SSOID is not available then the applicant to first register on RajSSO Portal to create SSOID and update SSO Profile at first login.
After successful authentication/login and updation of the SSOID Profile and select the scheme name. 
Select his/her name, the bank account and fill in personal details.
Upload required document
(i). Domicile Certificate
(ii). Admission Letter/Offer Letter
(iii). Fee Details letters/Documents issued by Foreign University 
Clicking the “SUBMIT” button. 
System will submit the application and a unique APPLICATIONID will be presented to applicant. For more information, please refer to: Guidelines: https://schemes.rajasthan.gov.in/scheme/detail/981 Registration: https://sso.rajasthan.gov.in/signin Manual: https://hte.rajasthan.gov.in/files/uploads/RGSAE-APPLICATION-SUBMISSION.pdf Tags associated with the scheme include: Financial Assistance, Higher Education, Student Finance.