The name of this welfare scheme is Dulari Scheme. It is also known as DS-A&N. The “Dulari Scheme” was launched by the Health Department, Union Territory of Andaman and Nicobar Islands on 26th January, 2013 to give incentives to newborn baby girls and girl children on passing VIII, X &amp;amp; XII standards. As per the present scheme, the girl child born on or after 26.01.2013 will be eligible to get the benefit under the scheme for birth incentives and the girl children who are below 13 years of age not registered under the Planned family scheme (old scheme) will also get the benefit of this scheme. The scheme targets beneficiaries such as Individual. It is specifically implemented in Andaman and Nicobar Islands. The implementing agency is Directorate Of Health Services, Andaman & Nicobar Island. Additionally, the nodal department is Health Department.

The scheme provides the following benefits: As per the scheme, the following benefits are given to the girl child whose parents are domicile of Andaman &amp;amp; Nicobar Islands:
Sl. No.DescriptionsAmount of Assistance1Benefits at BirthInstitution deliver₹8,000/Benefits at BirthHome delivery₹5,000/2Benefits on passing VIIIth Standard₹5,000/3Benefits on passing Xth Standard₹10,000/4Benefits on passing XIIth Standard₹10,000/5Benefits on getting married at the age of 21 years₹5,000/6Benefits on getting married after age of 25 years₹10,000/

Eligibility criteria include: The applicant should be a domicile of the Union Territory of Andaman &amp;amp; Nicobar Islands.
   The applicant should be a woman or girl child to avail the benefits under the scheme.
   The incentive is being given to those who are born on or after The girl children between 013 years born before the implementation of the Dulari Scheme and not covered under the Planned Family Scheme shall be given only the educational incentives after passing the VIII Standard which will be fixed in the bank. The amount cannot be drawn before attaining the 18year age of the girl child or any other rule passed by the A&amp;amp;N Administration.

&gt; Cessation of Benefits:


   The benefits will be ceased if the parent or beneficiary provides a falls/concealing statement/certificate.
   If the child gets married at an early age i.e. before 21 years of age no further benefit will be given.
   The girl becomes a school dropout (for further benefits only given for education).
   If the child dies due to any reason before attaining the required age of disbursal of incentive the Directorate of Health Services (DHS) may pass an order to prematurely close the deposit and the amount may be applicable may be given to the parents. The application process is as follows: &gt; Online Portal Registration Process:

Step 01: Visit online Portal: https://serviceonline.gov.in/login.do
Step 02: On the home page, click on ‘Register’ and fill in all the mandatory details.
Step 03: Click on the ‘Submit’ button and validate your Email ID &amp;amp; Mobile Number using OTP received.
Step 04: After successful validation, the applicant will be registered.
&gt; Dulari Registration Process:

Step 01: Applicant can login through their email ID that is used while registering
Step 02: Enter Password &amp;amp; Captcha
Step 03: Click on ‘Login’
Step 04: After successful login, click on ‘Apply for Services’ and then ‘View all Available Services’
Step 05: Now, search for ‘Dulari’ and click on ‘Dulari Registration’.
Step 06: Fill in all the mandatory details, preview the form, and click on ‘Submit’.
Step 07: After successful registration, the applicant will receive a registration ID. 
&gt; Dulari Application Process:

Step 01: Now, to avail of the benefits of the scheme, the applicants can login through their email ID that is used while registering
Step 02: Enter Password &amp;amp; Captcha
Step 03: Click on ‘Login’
Step 04: After successful login, click on ‘Apply for Services’ and then ‘View all Available Services’
Step 05: Now, search for the ‘Dulari’ and click on ‘Dulari Scheme’.
Step 06: Fill in all the mandatory details, select the incentives claim, and upload all the mandatory documents.
Step 07: Preview the application form and click on ‘Submit’. For more information, please refer to: Official Website: https://dhs.andaman.gov.in/DulariSchemes.aspx Application Portal: https://serviceonline.gov.in/ Application Form: https://dhs.andaman.gov.in/RTI/Suo-moto%20disclosure%20under%20section%204%20of%20RTI%20Act%202005%20regarding%20Dulari%20Scheme.pdf Tags associated with the scheme include: Financial Assistance, Girl Child, New Born, Scholarship, Woman.