The name of this welfare scheme is Sindhu Darshan Scheme in Ladakh. It is also known as SDSL. The scheme &amp;quot;Sindhu Darshan Scheme in Ladakh&amp;quot; was started by the Religious Trusts and Endowments Department, Government of Madhya Pradesh. The objective of this scheme is to provide financial assistance to the pilgrims of the state going on the Sindhu Darshan pilgrimage. Such persons of Madhya Pradesh, who have completed the journey of Sindhu Darshan located in Ladakh by getting a place in the list of persons selected by the Government of Madhya Pradesh, then after the journey, they will have to present the certificate of the actual expenditure incurred on the journey and the expenditure incurred on such journey reimbursement of 50% up to a maximum of ₹10,000/- per pilgrim will be done by the state government. The scheme targets beneficiaries such as Individual. It is specifically implemented in Madhya Pradesh. The implementing agency is Directorate Of Religious Trust And Endowment, Government Of Madhya Pradesh. Additionally, the nodal department is Religious Trusts and Endowments Department.

The scheme provides the following benefits: Under this scheme, the State Government will reimburse 50% of the total expenses incurred during the pilgrimage to Sindhu Darshan in Ladakh, up to a maximum of ₹10,000/per pilgrim.

Eligibility criteria include: The applicant should be a native of Madhya Pradesh.
   The applicant should have completed a pilgrimage to Sindhu Darshan in Ladakh after being selected by the Madhya Pradesh Government&amp;#39;s Religious Trust and Endowment Department.
   Only individuals selected by the Madhya Pradesh Government&amp;#39;s Religious Trust and Endowment Department for the pilgrimage are eligible for the scheme&amp;#39;s benefits.
   The applicant must not be an income taxpayer.
   Financial assistance is available to each individual only once in their lifetime.

Note: To avail the benefit of this scheme, pilgrims should submit all the documents detailing their actual expenses during the journey. The application process is as follows: Eligible pilgrims should apply for financial assistance/grant using the prescribed form, along with certified records of their pilgrimage, to the concerned District Collector, Madhya Pradesh within 60 days of completing their pilgrimage.  The office of the concerned Collector will disburse the grant amount after verifying the submitted records.

Note 1: Applications will be invited by the District Collector for Sindhu Darshan Yatra and the pilgrims will be selected according to the available quota from the applications received.
Note 2: If more number of applications is received than the prescribed quota, pilgrims will be selected by lottery (computerized draw of lots). A waiting list will also be prepared for 10% more people than the quota. In case the selected pilgrim does not go on the journey, the person included in the waiting list can be sent on the pilgrimage.
Note 3: While drawing the lottery, the application of the applicant will be considered together with that of their spouse (if the spouse has also applied for the journey). If selected in the lottery, the applicant will be allocated seats or berths for the journey, and the number of available seats/berths will be reduced accordingly. For more information, please refer to: Official Website: https://dharmasva.mp.gov.in/schemes/view/a3BHUnpXUHY1YmlFbW9xOHAvSm9WQT09 Guidelines: https://dharmasva.mp.gov.in/uploads/files/ladhkh.pdf Scheme Details (Page No. 8): https://mpplanningcommission.gov.in/MPES%20Chapterwise/Chapter%2015_Cultural%20Economy%20and%20Expansion%20of%20Spiritual%20Environment.pdf Tags associated with the scheme include: Financial Assistance, Ladakh, Pilgrim, Sindhu Darshan.