The name of this welfare scheme is Scholarships For Higher Education Abroad To Meritorious Boys And Girls From Open Category. It is also known as SHEAMBGOC. The scheme “Scholarships for Higher Education Abroad to Meritorious Boys and Girls from Open Category” was launched by the Department of Higher and Technical Education, Government of Maharashtra on 4th October 2018. Under the scheme, meritorious students from the open/unreserved category from the Maharashtra State who wish to study abroad and pursue Post Graduation, Diploma after Graduation and Ph.D. studies can avail of this scholarship every year.
       The students from the unreserved category can avail of scholarships for studying various courses in reputed universities. The Maharashtra government has sanctioned foreign scholarships to Twenty (20) students every year. The Universities/higher educational institutes should be acknowledged by THE (Times Higher Education)/or QS (Quacquarelli Symonds) which are included in the 200 Ranking lists. This programme will be implemented from the academic year 2018-19 under the Higher and technical education department. The scheme targets beneficiaries such as Individual. It is specifically implemented in Maharashtra. The implementing agency is Directorate Of Technical Education, Maharashtra. Additionally, the nodal department is Higher and Technical Education Department.

It falls under the categories: Education & Learning.

Eligibility criteria include: The candidate and the candidate&amp;#39;s mother/father or guardian should be citizens of India and residents of the state of Maharashtra.
This scheme is applicable to the students from the open/unreserved category.
Students from the reserved category who wish to apply from the open category are eligible to apply for the scholarships.
For PG, Diploma after Graduation and Ph.D courses from a foreign educational institution, THE (Times Higher Education) / or QS (Quacquarelli Symonds) Ranking must be within Unconditional Offer Letter from the educational institution of abroad.
Annual family income should be less than ₹ 8 lakhs.
The following seats are available for the said scholarship branch / coursewise:

Sl. No.Branch/CoursePost Graduate Degree and Post Graduate DiplomaDoctorateTotal1Art0101022Commerce0101023Science0101024Management0101025Law Course0101  02
6Engineering/ Architecture Science0404087Pharmacology010102Total101020 For more information, please refer to: Guideline: https://dte.maharashtra.gov.in/foreign-scholarship-2022-m Website: www.dtemaharashtra.gov.in FAQs: https://foreignscholarship2022.dtemaharashtra.gov.in/UploadedOfficeDOC/FAQ_2022_23.pdf Tags associated with the scheme include: Abroad, Higher Education, Open Category, Scholarship, Students.