The name of this welfare scheme is Scheme for Maternity Benefit. It is also known as SFMB. The Scheme for Maternity Benefit was launched by the Tripura Building and Other Construction Workers Welfare Board, under the Labour Department of Tripura. The scheme aims to provide financial assistance to registered female construction workers or the wife of a male registered construction worker after delivery or in case of miscarriage, with a maximum of two claims per lifetime for each beneficiary. The scheme targets beneficiaries such as Individual. It is specifically implemented in Tripura. Additionally, the nodal department is Labour Department .

The scheme provides the following benefits: Financial Assistance for Delivery:

Amount ₹8,000/to female registered construction workers after delivery or the wife of a male registered construction worker.
Maximum twice in a lifetime.

Financial Assistance for Miscarriage:

Amount ₹4,000/to female registered construction workers or the wife of registered construction workers.
Maximum twice in a lifetime.



Maternity Leave with Pay:

Maximum 3 months for female registered construction workers who have been working for not less than one year.

NOTE: As per the unskilled minimum rate of wages for the building and other construction workers notified by the Labour Department, Govt. of Tripura.

Eligibility criteria include: The applicant should be a female registered construction worker or wife of a male construction worker. 
The registered construction worker must be a beneficiary for not less than one year continuously to get a maternity benefit and paid maternity leave.
The registered construction worker can get this assistance only twice. 
The registered construction workers should not have any dues payable to the Board.
The registered women construction workers or wife of male construction worker already have two children are not eligible to get assistance. The application process is as follows: Step 1: The applicant should gather copies of the necessary documents needed to apply for the concerned scheme.
Step 2: The applicant should visit the nearest Common Service Center (CSC) and complete the Biometric Verification Process.
Step 3: The applicant should ensure that the CSC agent completes all mandatory fields in the application form and uploads copies of all required documents.
Step 4: Request a receipt or acknowledgment from the concerned authority to whom the application has been submitted. Ensure that the receipt contains essential details such as the date and time of submission, and a unique identification number (if applicable).


NOTE: 

The application shall be submitted within 6 months of delivery.
The second claim application shall be accompanied by an affidavit stating that the claim is for a second delivery. For more information, please refer to: Guidelines: https://tbocwwb.tripura.gov.in/news_announcements/8217255.pdf Official Website: https://tbocwwb.tripura.gov.in/index.php Tags associated with the scheme include: Financial Assistance, Miscarriage, Pregnant, Women.