The name of this welfare scheme is  Incentive Scheme for MSMEs in Powerloom Sector: State Capital Investment Subsidy. It is also known as ISMPSSCIS. The scheme “State Capital Investment Subsidy” is a sub scheme under the “Incentive Scheme for MSMEs in Powerloom Sector”. It was launched on 1st January, 2022, by the Department of Micro, Small &amp;amp; Medium Enterprises and Textiles, Government of West Bengal, and shall remain valid upto 31st December, 2024.
&gt; Objective of the &amp;quot;Incentive Scheme for MSMEs in Powerloom Sector”:

The objective of the Scheme is to extend fiscal incentives for installation of New age shuttleless Powerlooms by MSMEs in Textile sector with a view to boost production of the improved quality fabrics and to create a sustainable ecosystem for MSMEs in Textile sector which can maximize the utilization of resource, generate new employment and widen the area of operation to make the State emerge as the leader in Powerloom sector in country.
&gt; Objective of the &amp;quot;State Capital Investment Subsidy&amp;quot; Sub-scheme:

Through this incentive, an eligible micro or small or medium enterprise in Powerloom sector irrespective of area/ zone will be entitled to Capital Investment Subsidy for its approved project of fixed capital investment on Plant and machinery (new age shuttle less powerloom). The scheme targets beneficiaries such as Business Entity, Industries, Joint Liability Groups (JLGS), NGO, Registered Societies, Trust, Self Help Groups (SHGS). It is specifically implemented in West Bengal. Additionally, the nodal department is Micro, Small & Medium Enterprises and Textiles Department.

The scheme provides the following benefits: 20% of Fixed Capital Investment on Plant and machinery.

Eligibility criteria include: The Scheme shall be generally applicable to all micro, small, and medium enterprises (MSMEs) in the powerloom sector.
  Enterprises must have started production from 2022 to Enterprises should have executed a Fourparty agreement with the Directorate of Textiles, Financial institution and Tantuja.
  The units should be a private sector, cooperative sector and joint sector undertaking as also companies/undertakings
  owned and managed by the State Government and the Industrial SHGs.
  The project should be covered by a detailed feasibility report/project prepared for the purpose.
  The project should have been approved and sanctioned by a Central Financial Institution or Commercial Banks or State Financial Institutions. The application process is as follows: A micro, small or medium enterprise in Powerloom segment shall duly apply in prescribed form to the Directorate of Textile in FormA1 before any investment in Plant and machinery (new age shuttle less loom).
&gt; Time frame for submission of first Application:

Within 12 months from the date of commencement of commercial production (2022 to 2024).
&gt; Address:

Directorate of Textiles, Handlooms, Spinning Mills, Silk Weaving &amp;amp; Handloom Based Handicrafts Division
New Secretariat Buildings,
1, K. S. Roy Road, 5th Floor, &amp;#39;B&amp;#39; Block,
Kolkata 700001
Tel No. 0332248 4537 / 2248 6271 (Ext. 215)
Fax No. 0332248 4537 For more information, please refer to: Guidelines (Kolkata Gazette): https://wbmsmet.gov.in/home/download/YzA0YzdiMjc0YjAwYjBiMDgwYTRjYmRkOTU1MDY1NGQyNTNjM2YyYWYxMDRhNTkyYjRiMWI1YmVkZDYyOTZlN2YwNDc3ZDgwMDM5YzgxYjhmZWZiMWY2ODI0ZTNjYTUzMjU4N2YwYjViMjJiZTllZjAzYmM3NTRiZTY4ZDk0MTVjVmtvdlJCcjA0ZlpLYjZkbTlPQ0hyUTBaNGRuVzZZOXpHTlpGRkJwcUlZaDNwNXF0S01rSU4rTE5ZS3JCd3VKVmp5c1drM3hEb29QaHlXNit1Vy9CQT09 Tags associated with the scheme include: Entrepreneurship, Incentives, Powerloom, Reimbursement, State Capital Investment Subsidy, Subsidy.