The name of this welfare scheme is Gopinath Munde Shetkari Apghat Suraksha Sanugrah Audhan Yojana. It is also known as GOPINATH MUNDE SHETKARI APGHAT SURAKSHA SANUGRAH AUDHAN YOJANA. 1. Farmers are prone to various accidents while performing farming business. Due to death/ disability of earning head of family the family members of farmers have to face critical financial situation.
   1. The said scheme will be applicable for 24 hours of every day during the prescribed period.
   1. Farmers who are registered account holders and any 1 member of farmer&amp;#39;s family who is not registered as registered account holder shall remain eligible for benefits under the scheme even if any of these persons suffer an accident or disability.
   1. There is no relevance of this scheme to any other such scheme which is implemented by any other institution or individual farmers. The benefit of this scheme is completely independent.
   1. To get the benefit of this scheme there is no need to submit any other documents than prescribed in the Government Resolution (G.R.). The scheme targets beneficiaries such as All. It is specifically implemented in Maharashtra. The implementing agency is Commissionerate Of Agriculture. Additionally, the nodal department is Agriculture Department.

The scheme provides the following benefits: The benefits in the form of compensation provided:


	I)Death Rs. 2 lakhs
	II) Disablement Rs. 1 lakh /or 2 lakhs
		a) Loss of one limb or one Eye Rs. 1 Lakhs
		b) Loss of two limbs or two EyesRs. 2 lakhs
		c) Loss of one limb and one Eye	 Rs. 2 lakhs

Eligibility criteria include: 1) Registered farmer in the age group of 10 75 years.
2) Person registered as farmer in Maharashtra as evidenced by 7/12 extract.
3) All 52 crore farmers of the state and one family member   from their family. The application process is as follows: Concern accident farmer / heir of the farmer should submit complete claim proposal with all the prescribed documents to the concerned Taluka Agriculture Officer within 30 days.
After receiving preliminary information about the accident victim, a team of concerned revenue officer, police officer, taluka agriculture officer should visit and submit the report to Tehsildar within 8 days from the occurrence of the incident.
The Taluka Agriculture Officer should scrutinize the claim proposals received and submit the eligible claim proposals to the concerned Tehsildar.
In the committee meeting under the chairmanship of Tehsildar, a decision will be taken within 30 days to provide assistance to the farmers / heirs of the farmer family and after that the funds will be paid through ECS to the bank account of the accident affected farmers / heirs through the concerned Taluka Agriculture Officer.
&lt;br&gt; For more information, please refer to: Department Of Agriculture: https://krishi.maharashtra.gov.in/ Tags associated with the scheme include: Assistance, Compensation, Direct Benefit Transfer, Farmer, General, Person With Disability.