The name of this welfare scheme is Indira Gandhi National Widow Pension Scheme-Madhya Pradesh. It is also known as IGNWPSMP. Launched in the year 2009, the scheme “Indira Gandhi National Widow Pension Scheme (IGNWPS)” is a Centrally Sponsored Scheme by the Department of Social Justice and Empowerment of Persons with Disabilities, Government. of Madhya Pradesh. Under this scheme, financial support is provided to the widows of the state of Sikkim. A widow whose household is below the poverty line is eligible to get the benefits of the pension scheme. The beneficiary receives a monthly pension amount consists of the Central and State governments&amp;#39; share. The scheme targets beneficiaries such as Individual. It is specifically implemented in Madhya Pradesh. Additionally, the nodal department is Department of Social Justice and Empowerment of Persons with Disabilities.

The scheme provides the following benefits: The beneficiary will get a monthly pension of ₹ 600/.

Eligibility criteria include: The applicant should be a domicile of the state of Madhya Pradesh.
The applicant should be from a Below Poverty Line (BPL) family.
The application should be aged between 40 to 79 years. The application process is as follows: Step 1: The Application in the prescribed application form in the rural area of ​​his native residenceGram Panchayat / Janpad Panchayat, Nagar Panchayat / municipal council/ municipal corporation office in an urban area with three photographs, certificate for confirmation of age, Samagra ID and BPL card Or apply online through the nearest Loksewa Kendra.
Step 02: Fill in all the mandatory fields of the application form, attach all the (selfattested) mandatory documents, and submit them to the designated receiving authority. Step 1:Applicants have to visit the official portal.
Step 2: Click on the &quot;Online Apply for Pension Scheme&quot;.
 Step 3:Select District, Local Are, and enter  Samagram ID. 
Step 4: Select the online application option.
Step 5: Fill out the application form. 
Step 6: Upload the required documents.
Step 7: Submit. For more information, please refer to: Guidelines: https://socialsecurity.mp.gov.in/Scheme/IGNWP.aspx Apply Portal: https://socialsecurity.mp.gov.in/Home.aspx Tags associated with the scheme include: Empowerment, Pension, Widow, Women.