The name of this welfare scheme is Devnarayan Scooty Distribution And Incentive Scheme. It is also known as DSDAIS. To encourage girl students belonging to extremely backward classes to score maximum marks in class 12th examination conducted by the Rajasthan Board of Secondary Education/Central Board of Secondary Education and graduate/post graduate degree examinations conducted by the University, to develop the spirit of competition among them, to attract them for higher studies and Providing vehicle facility for higher education and providing financial support. The scheme targets beneficiaries such as Individual. It is specifically implemented in Rajasthan. Additionally, the nodal department is College Education Department.

The scheme provides the following benefits: 1500 scooties will be distributed free of cost every year according to the merit list of marks obtained in the 12th examination.
Those are studying regularly in government colleges, statefunded universities, 12th (Senior Secondary) (girls who are not in the priority list of scooty acceptance) 10,000/per annum in the first year, second year and third year.
For Postgraduate firstyear (P.G. degree) students, 20,000/per annum in the admission year and Rs. 20,000/per annum in the second year of postgraduation will be given as an incentive amount on obtaining 50% or more marks in the first year of postgraduation.

Eligibility criteria include: Girl students should be from extremely backward classes of Rajasthan origin.
Students have secured 50% or more marks in the 12th (C.S.) 
The examination should be conducted by the Rajasthan Board of Secondary Education / Central Board of Secondary Education and have been admitted to Government Colleges, State Funded Universities located in Rajasthan. 
Applicants should be studying regularly after being admitted in the first year of their bachelor&#39;s degree. 
The annual income of the student&#39;s parent/guardian/guardian/husband should be less than Rs.50 lakh.
The benefit of the Devnarayan Higher Education Financial Assistance Scheme / other financial assistance scheme will not be payable to the student who gets the benefit in this scheme. The application process is as follows: Applicants can apply online by visiting the official link portal.Click on the registration and select citizen. 
And choose the Jan Aadhaar or other option to continue. 
Now do register by providing the Jan Aadhaar Number and get the SSOID and password.
Login with SSOID, and select scheme.
Fill out the form and submit it. For more information, please refer to: Details: https://schemes.rajasthan.gov.in/scheme/detail/339 Registration: https://sso.rajasthan.gov.in/register Tags associated with the scheme include: Education, Financial Assistance, Higher Education, Resources For School.