The name of this welfare scheme is Fitter Training to Hearing Impaired Persons. It is also known as FTTHIP. The scheme &quot;Fitter Training to Hearing Impaired Persons&quot; was launched by the Department for the Welfare of Differently Abled Persons, Government of Tamil Nadu. The scheme aims to give fitter training to the hearing-impaired candidates at the ITI, Guindy for two years and a stipend of ₹300/- per month. The applications are accepted offline in the prescribed form available at the District Differently Abled Welfare Office. The scheme targets beneficiaries such as Individual. It is specifically implemented in Tamil Nadu. Additionally, the nodal department is Welfare of Differently Abled Persons Department.

The scheme provides the following benefits: Fitter training is given to the hearingimpaired candidates at the ITI, Guindy for 2 years. 
A stipend of ₹300/per month is given to the trainees.

Eligibility criteria include: The applicant should be a hearingimpaired person.
The applicant should pass the 10th standard.
The applicant should be between 18 and 25 years of age. The application process is as follows: Step 1: The interested applicant should visit (during office hours) the District Differently Abled Welfare Officer and request a hard copy of the prescribed format of the application form from the staff exclusively entrusted to issue and collect filledin applications.
Step 2: In the application form, fill in all the mandatory fields, and attach copies of all the mandatory documents (selfattest, if required).
Step 3: Submit the duly filled and signed application form along with the documents to the Commissioner for Welfare of the Differently Abled.
Step 4: Request a receipt or acknowledgment from the District Differently Abled Welfare Officer to whom the application has been submitted. Ensure that the receipt contains essential details such as the date and time of submission, and a unique identification number (if applicable). For more information, please refer to: Citizen's Charter (2022): https://cms.tn.gov.in/sites/default/files/documents/wda_e_cc_2022_23.pdf Tags associated with the scheme include: Hearing Impaired, ITI, Person With Disability, Stipend, Training.