The name of this welfare scheme is Swabhimaan Scheme. It is also known as SS-DADRA AND NAGAR HAVELI AND DAMAN & DIU. The Union Territory of Daman &amp;amp; Diu and Dadra &amp;amp; Nagar Haveli has successfully launched the “Swabhimaan Scheme” scheme to tackle the problems of Malnutrition, Anemia, and other relevant issues.  The Hon&amp;#39;ble Prime Minister launched the scheme in Daman on 25th February 2018 and Hon&amp;#39;ble Home Minister in Dadra and Nagar Haveli on 20th April 2018. Under this scheme, a take-home ration (7.5kgs nutritious) is provided every month to Pregnant Women, Lactating Mothers, and Sabla (Adolescent Category girls in the age group of 11-14 years). 
       The nutritional status of women and children in the Union Territory of Dadra and Nagar Haveli is alarming. The UT Administration decided to wage war against undernutrition and came up with the &amp;quot;Swabhimaan Scheme” as one of the potent tools. The scheme builds on the Integrated Child Development Services (ICDS) being implemented by the government of India. One of the components of ICDS is the provision of supplementary nutrition to children, pregnant women, lactating mothers, and adolescent girls. However, this nutrition was being provided as a cooked meal and the beneficiary had to visit the Anganwadi daily to avail of this benefit. Loss of wages or working time coupled with poor condition of Anganwadis, and poor attendance of Anganwadi workers led to low enrollment and poor uptake of supplementary nutrition.
Objectives:

  - Improve the nutritional status of pregnant women, lactating mothers, and adolescent girls
  - Provide a monthly quota of supplementary nutrition to pregnant women, lactating mothers, and adolescent girls on a fixed day of every month as a take-home ration.
  - Increase the number of beneficiaries availing of the scheme. 
  - Increase attendance of women in the Anganwadis where they can also avail of benefits of other schemes and be made aware of health and hygiene issues.
  - Reduction in stunting, Premature deliveries, and low-weight babies. The scheme targets beneficiaries such as Individual. It is specifically implemented in The Dadra And Nagar Haveli And Daman And Diu. The implementing agency is Integrated Child Development Services, Dadra & Nagar Haveli And Daman & Diuervices,. Additionally, the nodal department is Child Development Department, Dadra and Nagar Haveli.

The scheme provides the following benefits: Under the scheme, the beneficiaries are provided a monthly quota of supplementary nutrition to pregnant women, lactating mothers, and adolescent girls on a fixed day of every month as a takehome ration.
  The items provided in the supplementary nutrition kits are procured from the market through an open and transparent process. Wheat and rice are availed from the normal quota of the Food Corporation of India.
  Each item is neatly packed after quality inspection. All the items are then packed in an easytocarry jute bag for each beneficiary.
  Monthly supplementary nutrition provided to a beneficiary every month is as under:

ItemQuantityWheat2KgRice2KgPeanuts1KgJaggery250 gmsTur Dal250 gmsRoasted Peanuts250 gmsMoong Dal250 gmsMoong500 gmsOil (Fortified with Vitamin A&amp;amp;amp;amp;D)250 mlSalt (Double Fortified)1KgNote 1: The bag has monthly entitlement of supplementary nutrition printed on it.
Note 2: Swabhiman scheme has been synchronized with the Village Health and Nutrition Day (VHND). On that day, along with other benefits and awareness sessions, the bag full of supplementary nutrition is handed over to the beneficiaries in the presence of elected representatives and village people to ensure transparency.

Eligibility criteria include: All the Pregnant Women, Lactating Mothers, and Adolescent Girls (Adolescent Category in the age group of 1114 years) of the Union Territory of Daman &amp;amp; Diu and Dadra &amp;amp; Nagar Haveli are eligible to get the benefits of the scheme. The application process is as follows: Step 1: To avail of the benefits of the scheme, the beneficiaries need to visit the nearest Anganwadis Centre or contact the office of the Social Welfare Department, Union Territory of Daman &amp;amp; Diu, and Dadra &amp;amp; Nagar Haveli.
Step 2: The beneficiary may collect the enrollment form from Anganwadis Centre.
Step 3: The beneficiary should fill out the enrollment form and attach the essential documents with the form.
Step 4: After filling out the enrollment form, the beneficiary has to submit the form to the concerned persons in Anganwadis Centre.
Step 5: After successful enrollment, the beneficiary may get the benefits of the scheme.
Note: The beneficiaries are provided a monthly quota of supplementary nutrition as a takehome ration on a fixed day of every month. For more information, please refer to: Official Website: https://ddd.gov.in/scheme/swabhimaan-scheme/ Guideline: https://www.daman.nic.in/websites/Tourism_Department/2018/sushasan.pdf Tags associated with the scheme include: Adolescent Girls, Lactating Mothers, Pregnant Women, Sabla, Supplementary Nutrition.