The name of this welfare scheme is Shramik Annapurna Yojana (GBOCWWB). It is also known as SAY(GBOCWWB). The “Shramik Annapurna Yojana” is implemented by the Gujarat Building and Other Construction Worker’s Welfare Board (GBOCWWB), Labour, Skill Development &amp;amp; Employment Department, Government of Gujarat. Under the scheme, the registered construction worker is providing nutritious meals at concessional rates at the workplace or on Kadianaka. Registered construction workers and their family members can get the benefit. The scheme targets beneficiaries such as Family, Individual. It is specifically implemented in Gujarat. The implementing agency is Gujarat Building And Other Construction Worker’s Welfare Board. Additionally, the nodal department is Labour and Employment Department.

The scheme provides the following benefits: Under this scheme, healthy and nutritious meals will be provided to the construction workers at a concessional rate of ₹5/per meal.

Eligibility criteria include: The benefits of this scheme can be availed by construction workers registered with Gujarat Building and Other Construction Worker’s Welfare Board and their family members. The application process is as follows: •	The registered construction worker is about providing nutritious meals at the workplace or on Kadianaka.
•	The registered construction workers and their family members can avail the benefits by visiting there.
&gt; The registration of a construction worker as a beneficiary under the Gujarat Building and Other Construction Worker’s Welfare Board:


  Selfregistration by going to the eNirman application on your mobile or https://enirmanbocw.gujarat.gov.in/  All State Common Service Centers (CSC)
  EVillage Center
  Dhanvantari Arogya Rath
  EShram Seva Kendras For more information, please refer to: Official Website: https://bocwwb.gujarat.gov.in/schemes.htm Guidelines: https://bocwwb.gujarat.gov.in/Portal/Document/10_424_1_Shramik_Annapurna_Yojana.pdf Tags associated with the scheme include: Building Worker, Construction Worker, Labour, Meal.