The name of this welfare scheme is Chief Minister’s Free Diagnostic Services. It is also known as CMFDS. Quality diagnosis is vital for medical practitioners to make effective decisions about treatment. Access and availability of quality Radiology and Laboratory Services have been key challenges for the health system. The out-of-pocket expenditure of patients on diagnostic tests is increasing and forms the second major segment of such expenditure after medicine. Hence, the provisioning of quality diagnostic services (laboratory and radiological services) in public health facilities is critical for ensuring evidence-based care and reducing expenditure.


To address the above issues, Chief Minister&#39;s Free Diagnostics Services Programme is envisaged to ensure the availability of a minimum set of diagnostic services at government health institutions. Under Chief Minister&#39;s Free Diagnostic Services Programme CT Scan, X-Ray and Laboratory services are provided in the State of Assam free of cost to all patients in Govt. Health Institutions are irrespective of APL/BPL status. The scheme targets beneficiaries such as Individual. It is specifically implemented in Assam. Additionally, the nodal department is Health and Family Welfare Department.

The scheme provides the following benefits: To provide essential diagnostic services free of cost to all patients visiting government hospitals. No user charges will be levied on the patient.
Ensure the availability of a minimum set of diagnostics appropriate to the level of care.
Reduce high outofpocket expenditure incurred by patients for diagnostics.
Use of appropriate diagnostics to screen patients for a set of chronic conditions so as to enable secondary prevention measures.
Improve overall quality of healthcare and patient experience as a result of the availability of comprehensive healthcare in public health facilities.
Free CT scan services, XRay services, and Laboratory services are being implemented in District Hospital, PHCs, CHCs, etc in PPP mode

Eligibility criteria include: The applicant must be a resident of Assam.
The scheme is applicable to individuals of all age groups.
There is no specific income criteria, and the scheme is open to all socioeconomic backgrounds. The application process is as follows: Visit the nearest governmentauthorized diagnostic center or hospital.
Fill out the application form for the scheme.
Submit the necessary documents along with the application form.
Upon verification, the diagnostic tests will be conducted free of cost. For more information, please refer to: Govt Portal: http://cmfreelabservicesassam.com/ Tags associated with the scheme include: CT Scan, Free Services, Laboratory Services, Medical Facility, Quality Diagnosis.