The name of this welfare scheme is Maternity Benefit Scheme (UKBOCWWB). It is also known as MBS(UKBOCWWB). The “Maternity Benefit Scheme” is a social welfare scheme which is implemented by the Uttarakhand Building and Other Construction Workers Welfare Board (UKBOCWWB), Labour Department, Government of Uttarakhand. Under the scheme, financial assistance is provided to women registered construction workers during the maternity period, subject to the conditions specified by the Board. This assistance is given only on the birth of two children. In addition, the beneficiaries should not have received similar assistance from schemes run by the Central or State Government, nor have they applied to any other department for such assistance. The scheme targets beneficiaries such as Individual. It is specifically implemented in Uttarakhand. The implementing agency is Uttarakhand Building And Other Construction Workers Welfare Board. Additionally, the nodal department is Department Of Labour.

The scheme provides the following benefits: Under the scheme, financial assistance of ₹10,000/will be given to women registered construction workers during their maternity period.

Note: To get additional maternity assistance, it is necessary for the construction worker to attach a certified copy of the ANC card and a certificate issued by the medical officer along with the application form.

Eligibility criteria include: The applicant should be a resident of Uttarakhand.
   The applicant should be a woman and engaged in any building or construction work.
   The applicant should be registered under the Uttarakhand Building and Other Construction Workers Welfare Board.
   The applicant will become eligible for benefits only after three months from their registration.
   The applicant should have an active membership of the Board.
   It is mandatory for the woman construction worker to submit the application for the required benefits within two months from the date of delivery in the office of the Secretary, Welfare Board, through the Registration Officer of the concerned area.
   This assistance is given only on the birth of two children.
   The beneficiary should not have received the same benefits under any other scheme of the central or state Governments, and should not have applied in any other department for the same benefits. The application process is as follows: &gt; For New Registration under the UKBOCWWB:

Step 01: To become a beneficiary, a construction worker who has completed 18 years of age and has not completed 60 years, has worked as a construction worker for at least 90 days during the preceding 01 year, can register himself/herself.
Step 02: The eligible worker may visit the nearest Jan Seva Kendra or Shramik Suvidha Kendra along with all the relevant documents for online registration.
Step 03: Upon successful registration, the applicant will receive a Registration Number for future reference.
Step 04: The applicant can also track the status of their application online by visiting the official website: https://ukbocw.uk.gov.in/DynamicPages/LabourSearchhi.aspx
Note 01: After verification of the application, the photo identity card will be issued by the registration officer.
Note 02: Registration will be done free of cost, which will be valid for three years and after the completion of three years, only ₹100/contribution will be required to be deposited by the construction worker for every next three years.
&gt; Application Process for Welfare Scheme Benefits:

Step 01: To avail the benefits of the scheme, the eligible applicant may visit the nearest Shram Suvidha Kendra along with all the relevant documents.
Step 02: Upon successful submission of the application form, the applicant will receive an Application Number for future reference.
Step 03: The applicant can also track the status of their application online by visiting the official website: https://ukbocw.uk.gov.in/DynamicPages/LabourSchemeSearch.aspx For more information, please refer to: Official Website: https://ukbocw.uk.gov.in/StaticPages/SpecialScheme2-hi.aspx Notification (Page No. 1): https://ukbocw.uk.gov.in/MediaGallery/Scheme_PDF/1,3,4,5,7,10.pdf Scheme Details (Page No. 55): https://agriculture.uk.gov.in/files/MERI_YOJANA_book_pdf__04-12-23.pdf Track Your Scheme Application Status: https://ukbocw.uk.gov.in/DynamicPages/LabourSchemeSearch.aspx Track Your New Registration Application Status: https://ukbocw.uk.gov.in/DynamicPages/LabourSearch-hi.aspx Tags associated with the scheme include: Building Worker, Construction Worker, Financial Assistance, Labour, Maternity, Pregnancy, Woman.