The name of this welfare scheme is Relief under Natural Calamity / Pandemic Period (PBAOCWWB). It is also known as RUNCPP-PBAOCWWB. The &quot;Relief under Natural Calamity / Pandemic Period&quot; is a Welfare Scheme by the Puducherry Building and Other Construction Workers Welfare Board, Labour Department, Union Territory of Puducherry. Through this scheme, the Board provides financial assistance of ₹ 2,000/- to the registered worker as a relief during a natural calamity/pandemic. The amount is credited through Direct Benefit Transfer (DBT) into the bank account of the registered construction worker. The applications are accepted offline. The scheme targets beneficiaries such as Individual. It is specifically implemented in Puducherry. Additionally, the nodal department is Labour Department, Puducherry.

The scheme provides the following benefits: ₹ 2,000/credited as Direct Benefit Transfer (DBT) into the bank account.

Eligibility criteria include: The applicant should be a citizen of India.
The applicant should be registered as a Construction Worker with the Puducherry Building and Other Construction Workers Welfare Board.
The applicant should have completed the age of 18 years.
The applicant should not have completed the age of 60 years during the preceding 12 months in the construction work.
The beneficiary should be contributing to the Board&#39;s Fund.
The applicant should not have defaulted in payment of contribution to the Board for a continuous period of more than one year.
The applicant should have been hospitalized for five or more days due to an accident or any disease. The application process is as follows: Step 1: The interested construction worker should visit the Office of the Puducherry Building and Other Construction Workers Welfare Board (Industrial Estate, Thattanchavady, Puducherry 605 009) and obtain the prescribed format of the application form free of cost from the concerned authority exclusively entrusted to issue and collect filledin applications.
Step 2: In the application form, fill in all the mandatory fields, paste the passportsized photograph (signed across, if required), and attach copies of all the mandatory documents (selfattest, if required).
Step 3: The interested construction worker should submit the duly filled and signed application form and the documents to the concerned authority.
Step 4: Request a receipt or acknowledgement from the concerned authority to whom the application form has been submitted. Ensure that the receipt contains essential details such as the date and time of submission, and a unique identification number (if applicable). For more information, please refer to: Guidelines (Page No. 73): https://labour.py.gov.in/sites/default/files/citizens-charter-2020.pdf Grievance Redressal (Page No. 131): https://labour.py.gov.in/sites/default/files/citizens-charter-2020.pdf Registration Process & Documents Required (Page No. 57): https://labour.py.gov.in/sites/default/files/citizens-charter-2020.pdf Tags associated with the scheme include: Calamity, Disaster, Financial Assistance, Pandemic, Relief.