The name of this welfare scheme is Early Intervention Centre for Infants and Young Children with Hearing Impairment. It is also known as EICFIAYCWHI. The &quot;Early Intervention Centre for Infants and Young Children with Hearing Impairment&quot; was launched by the Department for the Welfare of Differently Abled Persons, Government of Tamil Nadu. This scheme has established early intervention centres for infants and young children with hearing impairment in all districts except Thiruppur and Ramanathapuram. These centres provide training to develop speech and language skills, aiming to integrate children into regular schools by the time they reach 5 years old. The scheme targets beneficiaries such as Individual. It is specifically implemented in Tamil Nadu. Additionally, the nodal department is Welfare of Differently Abled Persons Department.

The scheme provides the following benefits: Infants and young children with hearing impairment are given the training to develop speech and language skills.

Eligibility criteria include: The beneficiary child should be between 06 years. 
The beneficiary child should have hearing impairment.
The beneficiary child should not have any other disabilities. The application process is as follows: Step 1: The parents/guardian should visit (during office hours) the District Differently Abled Welfare Officer and request a hard copy of the prescribed format of the application form from the staff exclusively entrusted to issue and collect filledin applications.
Step 2: In the application form, fill in all the mandatory fields, and attach copies of all the mandatory documents (selfattest, if required).
Step 3: Submit the duly filled and signed application form along with the documents to the District Differently Abled Welfare Officer.
Step 4: Request a receipt or acknowledgment from the District Differently Abled Welfare Officer to whom the application has been submitted. Ensure that the receipt contains essential details such as the date and time of submission, and a unique identification number (if applicable). For more information, please refer to: Citizen's Charter (2022): https://cms.tn.gov.in/sites/default/files/documents/wda_e_cc_2022_23.pdf Tags associated with the scheme include: Disability, Hearing Impairment, Infant, Young Children.