The name of this welfare scheme is Chief Minister’s Agriculture Mechanisation Programme. It is also known as CMAMP. Raising Govt. assistance in consideration of the high cost of Farm Machineries shall be a boon in the entire farm operation in the state as more than 70% population is directly dependent on agriculture. Considering this, the existing Farm Mechanisation Programme (under implementation jointly by the Govt. of India and State Govt.) is renamed into CM’s Agriculture Mechanisation Programme, which was approved by raising the State share subsidy against the distribution of Farm Machineries.
Objective:

   1. To promote mechanization with the law of farm availability.
   1. To provide hiring services for various agriculture Machinery/ Implements of post-harvest technology (PHY) equipment applied for different operations.
   1. To expand mechanized activities during cropping seasons in large areas, especially in small and marginal land holdings.
   1. To introduce improved, newly developed agriculture implements and machines in crop production.
   1. To attain food and farm income security with the enhancement of area under different food and cash crops and transition from obsolete farm practices into technology-based improved farming operations.

Important Features:

   1. District Agriculture Development Society (DADS) is authorized to select the beneficiaries as per Chief Minister&amp;#39;s Sashakt Kisan Yojana-CM SKY.
   1. Records of CHC are to be maintained with details of hiring charges by the beneficiary and should be authenticated by District Agriculture Officer.
   1. All Custom Hiring Centers (CHCs) should be Geo-tagged and registered in the portal of the Monitoring &amp;amp; Training division of the Government of India.
   1. Every beneficiary will have to contribute ₹6.00 lakh per CHC.
   1. The subsidy is to be paid only at the source to the dealer of the company. The scheme targets beneficiaries such as Individual. It is specifically implemented in Arunachal Pradesh. The implementing agency is District Agriculture Office. Additionally, the nodal department is Agriculture and Marketing Department.

It falls under the categories: Agriculture,Rural & Environment.

Eligibility criteria include: All categories of farmers viz; Marginal, Small, Medium, and Large Farmers.
All the SHGs, Cooperative Societies, FPOs, and Entrepreneurs as identified by District Nodal Agencies, DAO as Member Secretary, DHO, DAH &amp;amp; VO, and DFDO as members.
A farmer or all members of a group of farmers should be firsttime buyers of the tractor/ farm machinery.
Farmers should not own a tractor/ farm machinery now or earlier in or their name or in the names of his/ their family members.
Facilities for aftersale services and spare parts should reasonably be available in the area/ district where the scheme is to be implemented. For more information, please refer to: Website: https://westsiang.nic.in/scheme/achief-minister-s-agriculture-mechanization-programme-cmamp/ Guideline: https://ahvdd.arunachal.gov.in/pdf/eBook/Government%20Scheme%20Handbook.pdf Tags associated with the scheme include: Agriculture, Farmer, Financial Assistance, Mechanisation, Subsidy.