The name of this welfare scheme is Nirman Shramik Antrashtriya Khel Pratiyogiyo Hetu Protsahan Yojana. It is also known as NSAKPPY. The purpose of this scheme is to encourage registered beneficiaries employed in building and other construction works and their children to participate in international sports.  This scheme will be effective on those employed in the Labour Department building and other construction workers who are registered as beneficiaries in the board under Section-12 of the The Building and Other Construction Workers (Regulation of Employment and Conditions of Service) Act, 1996, and are depositing their contributions regularly. This scheme will be effective in the entire state of Rajasthan. The scheme targets beneficiaries such as Individual. It is specifically implemented in Rajasthan. Additionally, the nodal department is Labour Department.

The scheme provides the following benefits: The incentive amount under this scheme for International level sports competition to the eligible beneficiary or his children will be given as follows: Participating in the competition₹ 2,00,000/On receiving the Bronze medal₹5,00,000/On receiving the Silver medal₹8,00,000/On receiving the Gold medal₹11,00,000/

Eligibility criteria include: Applicant should be a resident of Rajasthan State.
   For this scheme, those construction workers will be eligible, who are registered as labour under labour law. 
   Those building and other construction workers will be eligible who are registered as beneficiaries in the board under Section12 of The Building and Other Construction Workers (Regulation of Employment and Conditions of Service) Act, 1996 and are depositing their contribution regularly.
   In addition to the above, unmarried sons and daughters of construction workers will also be eligible for assistance under the scheme.

Other Terms &amp;amp; Conditions:

  The provisions of the scheme will not be applicable to any online gaming / bettingrelated competition.
  Declaration of invalidity of Sportsperson or withdrawal of medals won by the participant due to doping or any valid reason stipulated by the organising committee no incentives will be payable under the scheme.
  During scrutiny of the application and documents, if any facts are found to be false resulting in the cancellation of eligibility, it will be the responsibility of the concerned beneficiary to deposit all the assistance amount sanctioned under the scheme along with interest. The application process is as follows: Step 1: The application has to be submitted by the beneficiary on Board&amp;#39;s Online Portal in the form prescribed. 
Step 2: Approval and selection of the candidate will be done by the seniormost officer of the labour office or the competent authority appointed by the secretary after the application has been examined.
Step 3: Time period for submission of application Application can be submitted within a period of 6 months from the date of completion of International Sports Competition/Tournament.
Step 4: The incentive amount will be transferred through electronic means (RTGS / NEFT) to the candidate&amp;#39;s bank account under the central banking system. For more information, please refer to: Department Of Labour, Rajasthan Website: https://labour.rajasthan.gov.in/Schemes.aspx  Application Portal: https://ldms.rajasthan.gov.in/ Tags associated with the scheme include: Competition, Construction Worker, International Sports, Participation, Sports Scheme.