The name of this welfare scheme is Poompuhar District Craft Award. It is also known as PDCA. The &quot;Poompuhar District Craft Award&quot; scheme was launched in the year 2011-2012 by the Department of Handlooms, Handicrafts, Textiles &amp; Khadi, Govt. of Tamil Nadu. The award was introduced to recognize and honor the artisans district-wise. The awards are conferred every year and consist of a cash prize of ₹10,000/-, a silver medal, and a certificate. The award is granted annually. The scheme targets beneficiaries such as Individual. It is specifically implemented in Tamil Nadu. Additionally, the nodal department is Handlooms, Handicrafts, Textiles and Khadi Department.

The scheme provides the following benefits: Cash Prize of ₹10,000/. 
Silver Medal.
Certificate.

Eligibility criteria include: The applicant should be an artisan.
The applicant should be a native of Tamil Nadu.
Handicraft competitions will be conducted in the following 16 types of handicrafts: Panchaloka Idols, Brass Lamps and Brass Artifacts, Thanjavur Paintings, Thanjavur Plates, Wood Sculptures, Stone Sculptures, Fire Clay, Kalamkari Pathik and Applique Work, Pulp Toys, Mat Weaving, Bamboo and Palm Leaf Products, Neti Work, Textiles, Temple Jewellery, Pictorial Embroidery Work and Other Handicrafts.
The experience of the artisans and the service rendered by them in their profession and other special features will also be taken into consideration during the passing. The application process is as follows: Advertisements are released in June every year.
Step 1: The interested applicant should take print of the prescribed format of the application form.
Step 2: In the application form, fill in all the mandatory fields, paste the passportsized photograph (signed across, if required), and attach copies of all the mandatory documents (selfattest, if required).
Step 3: Submit the duly filled and signed application form along with the documents (during office hoursMondayFriday) to the Poombukar Head Office. 
Step 4: Request a receipt or acknowledgment from the concerned authority to whom the application has been submitted. Ensure that the receipt contains essential details such as the date and time of submission, and a unique identification number (if applicable). For more information, please refer to: Citizen Charter (2021): https://cms.tn.gov.in/sites/default/files/documents/tnhdc_e_cc_2021_22.pdf Application Form: https://poompuhar.com/tnhdc/downloads/1696665915553009436.pdf Tags associated with the scheme include: Craft, Craft, Financial Assistance, Financial Assistance, Prize.