The name of this welfare scheme is Fruit Development Scheme. It is also known as FDS. The scheme ‘Fruit Development Scheme’ was launched by the Department of Agriculture &amp;amp; Farmers’ Welfare, Government of Meghalaya to make available to the farmers good quality planting materials in convergence mode and sale at subsidized rates. The scheme targets beneficiaries such as Individual. It is specifically implemented in Meghalaya. The implementing agency is Department Of Agriculture & Farmers’ Welfare, Government Of Meghalaya. Additionally, the nodal department is Agriculture Department.

The scheme provides the following benefits: > Pattern of Assistance:


  Quality planting materials for sale at 50% subsidy and free of cost to the farmers under convergent mode with MGNREGA.

&gt; Type of Assistance and Entitlement (If any):

Sl. No.EntitlementOwantum of Assistance1To promote fruit cultivation by making available to farmers good quality planting materials including horticultural tools and implements.(i) 50% subsidy sale to the farmers. (ii) Free sampling of planting materials for convergent mode with MGNREGA.2Citrus rejuvenation programme for the senile orchard by providing planting materials for gap filling and organicbased plant protection measures.100% assistance.3Creeper fruit plants likeKiwi, Grapes, etc. permanent trellies system are provided but planting and erection are to be done by farmers.75% subsidy assistance is limited to 500 sqm per beneficiary.

Eligibility criteria include: The applicant/farmer should be a resident of Meghalaya.
   The applicant should be a bonafide farmer engaged in Agriculture, possessing own or leased land of at least 2 (hectares) or more.

Note: The applicant farmer can avail of the benefits of the scheme on a first come first serve basis. The application process is as follows: > Application Process:

Step 01: The eligible bonafide farmer can apply/write an application on plain paper.
Step 02: Along with the application, attach copies of all the mandatory documents (selfattest, if required).
Step 03: Submit the duly filled and signed application along with the documents at your nearest office of the Horticulture Development Officer of a CD Block/ Horticulture Circle.
> Mode of Selection of Beneficiary(s):

Bonafide farmers on a first come first serve basis.
> Whom to Contact:

District Horticulture Officer
Horticulture Development Officer For more information, please refer to: Official Website: https://megagriculture.gov.in/PUBLIC/schemes_ShowSchemesH.aspx?schid=96 Tags associated with the scheme include: Agriculture, Farmer, Fruit Production, Horticultural, Planting Material, Subsidy.