The name of this welfare scheme is Scholarships to Students with Disabilities Scheme. It is also known as SSDS-PUNJAB. The scheme “Scholarships to Students with Disabilities Scheme” was started by the Department of Social Security and Women &amp;amp; Child Development, Government of Punjab in the year 1996. The objective of the scheme is to assist students with disabilities to secure education, academic, technical, or professional training to enable them to earn a living and become useful members of society. This scheme is fully state-sponsored. The scheme targets beneficiaries such as Individual. It is specifically implemented in Punjab. The implementing agency is Department Of Social Security And Women & Child Development, Government Of Punjab. Additionally, the nodal department is Department of Social Security and Development of Women and Children.

The scheme provides the following benefits: Under this scheme, scholarship @ ₹200/per month per Student with Disability for education for class 1st to 8th.
Scholarship @₹300/per month per the student with Disability for education/training from 9th Class onwards.
Note: The Directorate shall credit the scholarship online in the bank account of the student.

Eligibility criteria include: All students of Punjab having 40 % and above disability (In any disability contained in the schedule of RPwD Act 2016) certificate.
   The monthly income of family/guardians should not exceed ₹5,000/per month.
   The candidate should have secured at least 40% marks in the previous annual examination.
   The scholarship will be provided to each student with disability from 1st class onwards. The application process is as follows: Application for the scholarship is submitted to the Head of school/college/ institution who after verifying it shall forward it to the District Social Security Officer (DSSO) of the concerned district.
Whom to contact:
Office of District Social Security Officer For more information, please refer to: Guidelines: https://sswcd.punjab.gov.in/en/scholarships-to-students-with-disabilities-divyang Official Website: https://sswcd.punjab.gov.in/en/wcd/state-schemes Tags associated with the scheme include: Disability, PwD, Scholarship, Student.