The name of this welfare scheme is Incentive To Girls. It is also known as ITG. The Rajasthan State government initiated a scheme &quot;Incentive for Girls&quot; to provide financial assistance. Under this scheme, to the all those girls students who are pursuing Senior Secondary, Graduation in Agriculture and Post Graduation in Agriculture, financial support will be provided. The scheme targets beneficiaries such as Individual. It is specifically implemented in Rajasthan. Additionally, the nodal department is Agriculture Department.

The scheme provides the following benefits: Rs. 15,000/per annum: To the girl students studying in senior secondary by taking agriculture subjects in 11th and 12th classes 
Rs. 25,000/per annum: To girl students studying in Agricultural graduate education like Horticulture, Dairy, Agricultural Engineering, Food Processing and Shri Karan Narendra Business Management College, Jobner in 4/5 years course
Rs. 25,000/per annum: To the girl students studying in Post Graduate Agriculture (M.Sc. Agriculture) in the 2year course.
Rs. 40,000/per annum: To the girl students studying for a maximum of 3 years PhD.

Eligibility criteria include: The student should be a native of Rajasthan.
Schools, Colleges, and Universities are recognized by the state and state government.
Girl Students should not have failed in the last year. 
The incentive amount is not payable to the girl students who leave school, college, or university in the middle of the class session. The application process is as follows: Applicants have to visit official portal.Click on login.
On new page applicant can login with their JanAadhaar Number OR
Applicants can also login with their SSO ID on sso portal.Now students can log in with their JanAadhaar ID. Fill out the application form.
Attach the required documents.
Submit. For more information, please refer to: Guidelines: https://schemes.rajasthan.gov.in/scheme/detail/488 Tags associated with the scheme include: Empowerment, Financial Assistance, Girl Education, Higher Education.