The name of this welfare scheme is Andaman & Nicobar Bed & Breakfast / Home Stay Establishment Scheme. It is also known as ACBBHSES. The Directorate of Tourism, Andaman &amp; Nicobar Administration, is implementing the ‘Andaman &amp; Nicobar Bed &amp; Breakfast/Homestay Scheme’ all over the Island based on the approved guidelines of the Ministry of Tourism, Govt. of India, under the scheme “Incredible India Bed &amp; Breakfast/Homestay Establishment”. The concept of the scheme is to provide supplementary and quality accommodation for foreigners and domestic tourists to stay with an Indian family to experience Indian customs and traditions.
> The aim of providing comfortable Home Stay Facilities of Standardized World Class Services to tourists, and to supplement the availability of accommodation in tourist destinations, the Department of Tourism, A &amp; N Administration will classify fully operational rooms of Bed &amp; Breakfast/ Home Stay Facilities as “Andaman &amp; Nicobar Bed &amp; Breakfast/ Homestay Establishments”. The basic idea is to provide a clean and affordable place for foreigners and domestic tourists alike including an opportunity for foreign tourists to stay with an Indian family to experience Indian customs and traditions and relish authentic Indian cuisine. The scheme targets beneficiaries such as Individual. It is specifically implemented in Andaman and Nicobar Islands. Additionally, the nodal department is Andaman & Nicobar Tourism.

The scheme provides the following benefits: The scheme will be on a bedandbreakfast basis, and charges will have to be levied accordingly. The type of breakfast to be offered will have to be specified, the charges will have to be displayed, and the visitors will have to be informed in advance to avoid unnecessary disputes.
Once an establishment applies for classification or reclassification, it will have to be ready at all times for inspection by the Classification Committee. No requests for deferment of inspection will be entertained.
Classification will be valid for three years from the date of issue of orders or, in the case of reclassification, from the date of expiry of the last classification, provided that the application has been received within the stipulated time, i.e., 3 months before the expiry of the last classification.
The application fee payable for classification or reclassification of a B&amp;B or homestay will be as follows, and the demand draft will be payable to the Sr. Accounts Officer, Directorate of IP&amp;T, Port Blair.

Star CategoryFor Classification / ReclassificationSilver₹ 1000/Gold₹ 2000/

Eligibility criteria include: The classification for Andaman &amp; Nicobar Bed &amp; Breakfast/Homestay establishments will be given only in those cases where the owner/promoter of the establishment, along with his/her family, is physically residing in the same establishment and letting out a minimum of one room and a maximum of six rooms (12 beds). The application process is as follows: Apply InPerson:


To Get a Homestay Licence, the applicant has to approach the Ministry of Tourism regional office link
Note: if there is no regional office on the state the applicant has to approach nearby state offices.
An application form will be provided to the applicant by the concerned officer.Or the applicant can download the application form from the following link refer page no 9
The applicant has to fill in all the necessary details in the application form. (Incomplete applications are not accepted)
Make sure that the applicant has attached all the necessary documents that are mentioned in the “Required Documents” section of this page.
The applicant has to attach the photocopies of the required documents along with the application form while submitting.
Submit all the documents with the completed form to the concerned officer.
The applicant has to pay the prescribed fee as requested by the authority.
After receiving the application, the concerned authority will check the submitted application and document set. If all are in place, the application will be accepted.
All applications are processed within a reasonable time, having regard to the particular circumstances of each application, including the completeness of information and documents submitted to the authority by the applicant.
The authority may seek additional information from an applicant if this is necessary to assess the application. The authority does not need to deal further with an application until the applicant has provided this additional information.
The authority will conduct an onsite inspection regarding the application. Once everything is approved the authority will issues the license.
This entire process can be completed within 30 days or as per the timeline advised by the respective department authority.


Fees
The application fees payable for classification/reclassification of Incredible India Bed &amp; Breakfast Establishments and Homestay Establishments will be as follows:
Silver Star Category: Rs. 3,000
Gold star category: Rs. 5, For more information, please refer to: Guideline: https://www.andamantourism.gov.in/admin-pannel/docfile/23-Bed%20and%20Breakfast%20Notification.pdf Registration: https://www.andamantourism.gov.in/bnb/public/home Tags associated with the scheme include: Accommodation, Bed, Breakfast, Homestay, Tourism.