The name of this welfare scheme is AICTE- TECHNICAL UNIVERSITY JOINT TRAINING PROGRAMS FOR TEACHERS. It is also known as TUJTPFT. AICTE- Technical University Joint Training Programs for Teachers, launched by the All India Council for Technical Education, aims to provide financial assistance to the technical universities to conduct training for faculty members to prepare them for being successful in the chosen profession and thereby enabling an improvement in teaching-learning methodology.
Duration/Type/Participants:
The training program will be of six days’ residential program with minimum forty participants.
Number of Programs:
The university shall conduct 10 such training programs in a financial year.
Types of training:
Each such programs shall cover at least one of the subjects run by the university viz Civil, Mechanical, Electrical, Electronics, Computers, Physics and Chemistry etc. Minimum one session of 3 hours in each program may be kept for training related to Moral Values, Ethics, Behavioral Sciences &amp;amp; Attitude etc. Technical Universities preferably may also use any of the following as the preferred subjects for the program.

   1. Examination reforms.
   1. Mentor&amp;#39;s Training as per the norms of NITTT.
   1. Cognitive skills &amp;amp; Design thinking.
   1. NBA Accreditation &amp;amp; the processes.
   1. Identifying problems &amp;amp; double diamond approach towards design.
   1. Model curriculum as prescribed by AICTE.
   1. Induction program for students as prescribed by AICTE.
   1. Intellectual property management at early stage of innovation &amp;amp; start - ups.
   1. Frugal innovations &amp;amp; social entrepreneurship.

Infrastructure:
Being a residential program, the university shall have requisite infrastructure viz. guest house and dining hall etc.
Role and responsibilities of technical university:

  - The university shall conduct the joint training program for teachers strictly in accordance with the provisions of the scheme/MoU related to the program.
  - The university will do the certification of these programs jointly with AICTE. It shall be ensured by the
  - university that the certificates shall be issued only to those participants, who qualify the test to be necessarily conducted at the end.
  - The university will act as the facilitator for the operation of the training program.
  - The university will be accountable for finance/ grants sanctioned under the scheme and shall abide by the terms and conditions stipulated by AICTE for financial grants.
  - The university will constitute a Project Monitoring committee for effective implementation of the scheme.AICTE will provide its representative as a member on that committee.
  - The university shall submit, yearly report, detailed statement of expenditure and Utilization Certificate, in the prescribed format for sanctioned grants, within a month after the end of each financial year duly audited by a certified Chartered Accountant firm. The accounts shall be open to inspection by the officials of AICTE and an audit by the Statutory Auditors.
  - After conduct of each of the training program, the documents stated in 1.8 above shall be submitted by the university to AICTE. The scheme targets beneficiaries such as Individual, University / Institution. Additionally, the nodal ministry is Ministry of Education and the nodal department is Department Of Higher Education.

The scheme provides the following benefits: The maximum total expenditure for conduct of one training program will be ₹ 3,000,00/only to be equally shared by AICTE and the university.
 AICTE: Will release a grant of ₹ 1,50,000/to Technical university for the training program to meet the expenditure or the actual expenditure, whichever is less on (i) TA/DA/ Honorarium to Resource Persons (Honorarium not to exceed 20% of the total expenditure incurred on conduct of one such training program), (ii) TA to outstation participants and (iii) Course material to participants.
 Technical university: Will meet from its own funds, the expenditure to the extent of ₹ 1,50,000/or the actual expenditure, whichever is less, to cover all items of expenditure such as (i) Boarding &amp;amp; lodging of participants, (ii) Honorarium to Program Coordinator (not to exceed 1% of the total expenditure incurred on one such training program) and (iii) Working expenses (tea/coffee/stationary/certificate/printing etc.).

Eligibility criteria include: AICTE approved institutions affiliated with the partner university are eligible to participate. The application process is as follows: Registration of New Institute:
Step 01: Visit http://portal.aicteindia.org/partnerportalenu/start.swe and click on New Institute button.
Step 02: Users will be redirected to another website. Hover the cursor on Login and select ‘Investor Login’.
Step 03: New users need to click on ‘Sign Up Now’ to register.
Step 04: Enter the details and click on ‘Verify’ to receive OTP on your Email Id and Mobile Number.
Step 05: After successful verification Click on ‘Sign Up Now’ to register.


PostRegistration Process:
Step 01: Visit http://portal.aicteindia.org/partnerportalenu/start.swe and log in with the credentials provided by AICTE.
Step 02: Navigate to AQIS Application Screen by clicking on ‘AQIS Application’ screen tab.
Step 03: Institute details will auto populate in the AQIS Application.
Step 04: Fill demographic and Bank details .
Step 05: Only after confirming the Bank Details, the “New” button will be enabled for adding the AQIS Application. Click on “New” button to create AQIS Application.
Step 06: A unique AQIS Application ID will get created. Select &quot;AICTETECHNICAL UNIVERSITY JOINT TRAINING PROGRAMS FOR TEACHERS&quot; as Scheme from the drop down List.
Step 07: Now details to be filled for the as followed: Program Details, Personalities Expected, Participating Industries ,Similar Events, Budget Estimate Others, Academic Credentials of Coordinator/ PI/ Applicant, Justification, Credential of Institute / Department.
Step 07: Once the user has filled all the data in the above mentioned tab, user should click on ‘Validate Application’ button on the ‘AQIS Application’ tab.
Step 08: User will get a pop up message to attach a Mandate Form  after downloading the sample form.
Step 09: Now fill the amount in the ‘Total Funds Requested’ under label ‘Budget Estimates Others’.
Step 10: After Validation is completed successfully, read the declaration, check it and click on Save.
Step 10: Click on “Submit” button to submit the application. For more information, please refer to: Guidelines: https://aicte-india.org/sites/default/files/fds/Scheme%20Document%20TU%20teach-converted.pdf Application Form: https://aicte-india.org/sites/default/files/fds/Application_Form.pdf Format For Statement Of Expenditure: https://aicte-india.org/sites/default/files/fdc/Technical%20University.pdf Tags associated with the scheme include: Faculty, Learning, Technical Education, Training.