The name of this welfare scheme is Chief Minister's Overseas Scholarship Scheme for Minorities. It is also known as CMOSSM. The scheme “Chief Minister&amp;#39;s Overseas Scholarship Scheme for Minorities” was launched by the Minorities Welfare Department, Government of Telangana in the year 2015-16 for students belonging to the Minority community to pursue Higher Studies in Post Graduate Courses in Foreign Universities. Financial Assistance under this Scheme for studies abroad will be sanctioned to 500 minority students/graduates per year to pursue Postgraduate/Doctoral studies abroad. The scheme targets beneficiaries such as Individual. It is specifically implemented in Telangana. The implementing agency is Minorities Welfare Department, Telangana. Additionally, the nodal department is Minorities Welfare Department.

The scheme provides the following benefits: Fees: Fees shall be payable in two installments as follows:
•	InstalmentI: An amount of ₹00 Lakhs or the actual fee (whichever is less) shall be payable to the Students upon production of the landing permit/194 Card (Immigration Card);
•	InstalmentII: An amount of ₹00 Lakhs of the actual fee (whichever is less) shall be payable to the Students upon production of the 1st Semester Results.
The assistance amount will be sanctioned to the individual towards fees and living expenses by way of a grant subject to his / her joining the course, which shall be issued to the candidates selected by the Selection Committee. The sanction proceedings can be made use of by the candidates for obtaining a Visa from the respective Embassy.
The student shall be eligible for an educational loan from any Nationalized Bank at prevailing rates of interest.
The awardees are permitted to supplement their prescribed allowances by undertaking a Research/Teaching Assistantship.
Oneway ticket fare shall be paid to the selected candidates.

Eligibility criteria include: The applicant should be a resident of Telangana.
   The applicant should belong to the minority community.
   The qualifying upper age limit for applicants for the scheme should not exceed 35 years as of 1st July of the year.
   Only one child from a family is eligible.
   The awardee cannot be considered for the second or subsequent times as the individual can be awarded only once in a lifetime.
   The applicant should have a valid TOEFL/IELTS &amp;amp; GRE/GMAT.
   The applicant should have obtained admission to an accredited Foreign University.
   The applicant should possess a valid Passport.
   Family income should be less than ₹5 lakhs per annum from all sources.

&gt; Qualification Criteria:


   For Post Graduate Course: 60% marks or equivalent grade in foundation Degree in Engineering/ Management/Pure Sciences/Agriculture Sciences/Medicine and Nursing/Social Sciences/Humanities.
   For Ph.D. Courses: 60% marks or equivalent grade in P.G. course in Engineering/Management/Pure Sciences/Agriculture Sciences/Medicine/Social Sciences/Humanities.

&gt; Countries Eligible:

USA, UK, Australia, Canada, Singapore, Germany, New Zealand, Japan, France and South Korea.
Note 01: The selected candidate has to join the concerned university within one year of communication of selection. On the expiry of this specified period of time, the award will be automatically cancelled and come to an end. No request for an extension of time for availing the award is permissible under the scheme.
Note 02: The candidate shall not change the course of study or research for which the scholarship has been sanctioned.
Note 03: It will be the responsibility of the candidate to obtain the appropriate visa for a country wherein one intends to study further under an award from the scheme and the Visa issuing authorities may kindly see that only such type of visa be issued which only permits the candidate to pursue a specified course abroad and thereafter the candidate returns to India.
Note 04: The candidates are required to make their own efforts in seeking admission to an accredited University/Institution abroad.
Note 05: 33% of the awards shall be earmarked for Women candidates (if adequate number of eligible women candidates are not available then male candidates may be selected against this 33%).
Note 06: Not more than one child of the same parents/guardians will be eligible and to this effect, a selfcertification will be required from the candidate. The application process is as follows: Step 01: Notification shall be published in leading dailies calling for applications and wide publicity will be given in University Campuses and in the ePASS portal in August / September and in January/February of the year;
Step 02: All such students desirous of applying for financial assistance for studies abroad shall apply online from 1st August to 30th September and again from 1st January to 28th /29th February of the year.
Step 03: To avail of the benefits of the scheme, the applicants shall apply online by accessing the website “Telangana ePass”.
Step 04: Scroll down the homepage and click on “Overseas Scholarship Services”.
Step 05: Select the scheme “Chief Minister&amp;#39;s Overseas Scholarship Scheme for Minorities” and click on ‘Registration’.
Step 06: Fill out the registration form completely and click on ‘submit’.
Note: The applications should be complete in all respects and should be accompanied by all relevant documents. The applications, incomplete in any respect, are liable to be rejected. For more information, please refer to: Guideline: https://telanganaepass.cgg.gov.in/downloads/MInority_AOVN_GO.pdf Order: https://telanganaepass.cgg.gov.in/downloads/MInority_AOVN_GO126.pdf EPASS Portal: https://telanganaepass.cgg.gov.in/ Revised Order: https://goir.telangana.gov.in/pdfshow.aspx Tags associated with the scheme include: Foreign University, Higher Education, Minority, Overseas, Scholarship, Student.