The name of this welfare scheme is Subsidy for Disabled Young Professionals. It is also known as SDYP. The scheme &amp;quot;Subsidy for Disabled Young Professionals&amp;quot; is implemented by the Haryana Backward Classes and Economically Weaker Sections Kalyan Nigam, Government of Haryana. Under this scheme, loans up to ₹25,00,000/- are provided to professionally educated unemployed disabled youth who fall under the OH, VH, HH, or MR categories, at different interest rates ranging from 4.5% to 8% per annum. The beneficiary should be a permanent resident of Haryana, aged between 18 and 45 years, who has obtained a professional degree from a recognized institute and has a disability of 40% or more to be eligible under this scheme. The scheme targets beneficiaries such as Individual. It is specifically implemented in Haryana. The implementing agency is Haryana Backward Classes And Economically Weaker Sections Kalyan Nigam. Additionally, the nodal department is Welfare of Scheduled Caste & Backward Classes Department.

The scheme provides the following benefits: Under this scheme, loans up to ₹25,00,000/are provided to professionally educated unemployed disabled youth who fall under the OH, VH, HH, or MR categories.
   The loan is available at different interest rates ranging from 5% to 8% per annum.

Eligibility criteria include: The applicant should be a permanent resident of Haryana.
   The applicant should have a disability of at least 40%.
   The applicant&amp;#39;s age should be between 18 and 45 years.
   The applicant should have obtained a professional degree from a recognized Institute.
   The scheme is for professionally educated unemployed disabled youth.
   The activity proposed should be directly relevant to the professional degree of the applicant. The application process is as follows: &gt; Registration Process on AntyodayaSARAL Portal:

Step 01: The eligible applicant may apply online through the Official PortalAntyodayaSARAL Portal. https://saralharyana.gov.in/
Step 02: If the applicant is not registered on the portal, he/she gets registered there. 
Step 03: For registration, click “New User” under ‘Sign In Here’ and fill in all the mandatory details i.e. Name, Email ID, Mobile Number, Password &amp;amp; State. Click on ‘Submit’.
Step 04: Verify your mobile number and email ID through the received OTP and complete the registration process.
&gt; Login to apply for the scheme:

Step 01: To avail the benefits of the scheme, visit the Official AntyodayaSARAL Portal and log in through the email ID used while registering.
Step 02: Enter Password &amp;amp; Captcha and click on ‘Login’.
Step 03: After successful login, click on ‘Apply for Services’ and then ‘View all Available Services’
Step 04: Now, you can search for the scheme and click on the scheme to go ahead and fill out the application form.
Step 05: Fill in all the mandatory details and upload all the mandatory documents.
Step 06: Preview the application form and click on ‘Submit’.
&gt; Tracking of Application:

Applicants can track their applications through the Official AntyodayaSARAL Portal by entering their Department Name, Scheme Name, and Application Reference ID. For more information, please refer to: Scheme Details: https://kms.saralharyana.nic.in/ViewDoc?Id=tYMmpL55%2f9ZI5sc2wB6uFw%3d%3d Official Website: https://www.haryanascbc.gov.in/contribution-towards-share-capital-to-haryana-backward-classes-and-economically-weaker-sections Antyodaya-SARAL Portal: https://saralharyana.gov.in/ Tags associated with the scheme include: Loan, PwD, Subsidy, Unemployed, Young Professional, Youth.