The name of this welfare scheme is Accident Relief Scheme. It is also known as ARS. The scheme &quot;Accident Relief Scheme&quot; was launched by the Social Welfare and Nutritious Meal Programme Department, Government of Tamil Nadu. The scheme aims to provide financial assistance of ₹20,000/- to the legal heirs of the household below poverty line on the death of a “Primary breadwinner” (male or female) due to an accident in respect of 44 occupational categories of notified employment as per G.O.Ms.No.471, Finance (CMPRF) Department dated.23.05.1989. The scheme targets beneficiaries such as Family. It is specifically implemented in Tamil Nadu. Additionally, the nodal department is Social Welfare and Nutritious Meal Programme Department.

The scheme provides the following benefits: Financial assistance of ₹20,000/is given to the legal heirs of the household below poverty line.

NOTE: Depending upon the nature of the injury sustained and the degree of physical impairment, relief of ₹5,000 to ₹15,000 is given.

Eligibility criteria include: The breadwinner of the family, whether male or female, must be an earning member.
The breadwinner&#39;s death was caused by an accident.
The family should belong to the BPL category. 
Legal heirs of the deceased primary breadwinner of the family.
The family members engaged in the 44 categories (Page No. 139) of notified employment. The application process is as follows: Step 1: The interested applicant should visit (during office hours) the district Taluk office of the Tahsildars and request a hard copy of the prescribed format of the application form from the staff exclusively entrusted to issue and collect filledin applications.
Step 2: In the application form, fill in all the mandatory fields, and attach copies of all the mandatory documents (selfattest, if required).
Step 3: Submit the duly filled and signed application form along with the documents to the District Collector/Revenue Divisional Officer/Special Tahsildar.
Step 4: Request a receipt or acknowledgment from the Tahsildars to whom the application has been submitted. Ensure that the receipt contains essential details such as the date and time of submission, and a unique identification number (if applicable).
> Application Deadline:

The application should be sent within 6 months of the death. For more information, please refer to: Citizen's Charter: https://www.tnsocialwelfare.tn.gov.in/website-345/sites/default/files/2022-01/citizen_chart_2017_18.pdf Tags associated with the scheme include: Accident, Bread Winner, Death, Financial Assistance.