The name of this welfare scheme is Dr. Savitaben Ambedkar Inter Caste Marriage Assistance Scheme. It is also known as DSAICMAS. The scheme “Dr. Savitaben Ambedkar Inter Caste Marriage Assistance Scheme” is implemented by the Director Scheduled Caste Welfare, Department of Social Justice &amp;amp; Empowerment, Government of Gujarat. The scheme has been implemented as part of social empowerment by addressing inequality through marriages between individuals from Scheduled Castes of Hinduism and those from castes other than Scheduled Castes of Hinduism. Under the scheme, the couple is to be provided financial assistance of ₹2,50,000/- to encourage inter-caste marriages between Scheduled Castes and other Hindus. This scheme is a centrally sponsored initiative with a 50% contribution from both the state and central governments. The scheme targets beneficiaries such as Individual. It is specifically implemented in Gujarat. The implementing agency is In Urban Area District Deputy Director, Scheduled Caste Welfare Office And Rural Area District Social Welfare Officer Office. Additionally, the nodal department is Social Justice and Empowerment Department.

The scheme provides the following benefits: The scale of assistance provided to the couple in the case of intercaste marriage under the scheme is as follows:

   An assistance of ₹1,00,000/is provided to the couple for domestic expenses, for purchasing household appliances.
   An assistance of ₹1,50,000/is provided in the form of National Savings Certificates in the joint name of the married couple.
   A total financial assistance of ₹2,50,000/will be provided to the couple under the scheme.

Eligibility criteria include: One person of the intercaste marriage couple should be a native of Gujarat.
   One person of the intercaste marriage couple should belong to Scheduled Caste Category.
   Such marriages have to be registered and applications for assistance under the scheme have to be made within two years of the marriage.
   The parents of the intercaste marriage couple should have been residing in the state of Gujarat for five years.
   Any person other than a Scheduled Caste who is a migrant shall be required to furnish a certificate to the effect that he is not an untouchable in that Province or State and that he practices the Hindu religion.
   If a widower or a widow who does not have children remarries, assistance will be available under this scheme.
   There is no income limit. The application process is as follows: Step 01: The eligible applicant may visit the eSamaj Kalyan Portal: https://esamajkalyan.gujarat.gov.in/
Step 02: On the home page, under the tab ‘Citizen Login’, click on New User ‘Please Register Here’.
Step 03: Enter your Full Name as per Aadhaar Card, Gender, Date of Birth, Aadhaar Card Number, Email ID, Caste etc., and then click on ‘Register’.
Step 04: After successful registration, the applicants can login through their User ID and Password.
Step 05: Now, click on ‘User Profile’ to update your profile.
Step 06: Fill in all the mandatory information and then click on ‘Update’. 
Step 07: After updating the profile successfully, select the scheme appearing on the home page; an application form will open.
Step 08: Fill in all the mandatory details in the application form and upload all the relevant documents.
Step 09: Now agree with the terms &amp;amp; conditions and click on ‘Save Application’.
Step 10: Submit the application form and take out the print of the application for future reference. The applicant can note down the application number to track the application status by logging into the portal using their User ID and Password.
User Manual For more information, please refer to: Official Website: https://sje.gujarat.gov.in/dscw/schemes/1610?lang=Gujarati Scheme Details (Page No. 88): https://sje.gujarat.gov.in/assets/downloads/SCSP_202021_09072021.pdf Scheme Details (Page No. 469): https://planning.gujarat.gov.in/images/pdf/dp-eng-23-24.pdf Scheme Details: https://esamajkalyan.gujarat.gov.in/index.aspx?ServiceID=F346tpHtKWIL27Mpkoh97w== E-Samaj Kalyan Portal: https://esamajkalyan.gujarat.gov.in/ Tags associated with the scheme include: Financial Assistance, Hindu, Inter Caste, Marriage, Scheduled Caste.