The name of this welfare scheme is Technical Education Scholarship Scheme For Degree Level. It is also known as TESSDL. The scheme “Technical Education Scholarship Scheme For Degree Level” was started by the Department of Technical Education, Himachal Pradesh. Under the scheme, the scholarships will be awarded to the P.G. Courses/Degree Level Courses in Engineering/Technology including Architecture or any other equivalent course approved by the All India Council for Technical Education (AICTE).
> Number of Scholarship:

The total number of Scholarships for P.G. and degree-level Courses will be 175 Number. The scheme targets beneficiaries such as Individual. It is specifically implemented in Himachal Pradesh. The implementing agency is Department Of Technical Education, Vocational And Industrial Training, Himachal Pradesh. Additionally, the nodal department is Technical Education Department, Himachal Pradesh.

The scheme provides the following benefits: The value of the scholarship for General Category students shall be ₹300/per month.
   The value of the scholarship for SC/ST students shall be ₹500/per month.

Note 01: 100% Scholarships shall be awarded to the SC and ST Students in P.G./Degree Courses.
Note 02: All students belonging to Schedule Caste and Schedule Tribe and those belonging to BPL families studying in Post Graduate degree and other courses, shall get the scholarship and it will be over and above the sanctioned scholarships for these categories.

Eligibility criteria include: Only those students shall be eligible for the award of scholarships who are Bonafide Himachali and ward of Himachal Pradesh Government employees.
   The Scholarships will be awarded to those students who are pursuing the P.G. Courses /Degree level Courses in Engineering /Technology including Architecture or any other equivalent course approved by the All India Council for Technical Education (AICTE).
   The Scholarship shall be awarded only if the total income of parents or guardians from all the sources is not more than ₹36000/per annum.

Note 01: The Scholarship shall be awarded on the basis of (i) PovertycumBrilliance and (ii) Brilliance.
Note 02: The Scholarship shall be awarded strictly according to merit to be determined with reference to (i) Income of parents or guardian and (ii) Marks obtained in the Examination/Class by virtue of which a candidate is eligible for admission provided the students has Secured at least 60% of marks in the said exam. This condition will however not be applicable to the SC and ST Students.
Note 03: The students who become eligible for scholarships on the basis of povertycumbrilliance shall first be awarded scholarships. After their list is exhausted, the remaining scholarships shall be awarded on the basis of brilliance.
Note 04: The Scholarship shall be tenable for the full course from the date of joining for the duration of the course and shall be awarded/renewed on a yeartoyear basis subject to satisfactory progress of the student and continued good conduct.
Note 05: The recommendation of the Principal or other authorized officer of the institute where the student is studying will be necessary for the award/renewal of the scholarship.
Note 06: If the student fails in a university examination or in the Polytechnic examination or any examinations or tests while undergoing the course which prevents him/her from being promoted to the next higher class, the scholarship shall be discontinued. However, two failures will not result in an extension in the total period of the course.
Note 07: The students who are not awarded a scholarship from the date of joining of courses i.e. in the first year can also be considered for award of scholarships in subsequent years in case a number of scholarships is available due to dropouts, failure or otherwise, in particular, the year shall not be exceeded.
Note 08: These scholarships shall be awarded on the basis of the performance of the previous annual examination they have passed in the Engineering course. Other conditions of award of fresh/renewal of scholarship will remain operative as at present in vogue.
Note 09: All students who are awarded scholarships under these rules shall be required to execute a bond to the effect that they will serve Himachal Pradesh for a period of at least five years after the completion of their course if their services are required by the State Government. The application process is as follows: Step 01: The students applying for the scholarship for the first time need to &amp;quot;Register&amp;quot; using the icon “New Registration” at the NSP Portal URL https://scholarships.gov.in/, by providing accurate and correct information as per their documents.
Step 02: After successfully get registration done, students will get their “Student Registration ID”.
Step 03: Through “Student Registration ID” students will be able to login into the account using the icon “Fresh Application” at NSP Portal.
Step 04: After successful login to the portal, the welcome page appeared. On clicking the “Application Form” icon, students will be directed to the application screen.
Step 05: Now, the students may fill out the complete application form and on clicking the “Final Submit” button, the application is finally submitted.
Step 06: On successful submission of the application, a systemgenerated registration number is sent to the students which can be used for future reference. For more information, please refer to: Official Website: https://techedu.hp.gov.in/?q=scholarship EPASS Portal: https://hpepass.cgg.gov.in/NewHomePage.do?actionParameter=technicalSchemes#:~:text=Scholarships%20for%20ITI%20Students(SC,100%2F%2D%20p.m. Guidelines: https://techedu.hp.gov.in/sites/default/files/SKM_C224e23071715510.pdf National Scholarship Portal: https://scholarships.gov.in/ Tags associated with the scheme include: Degree, Post Graduate, Scholarship, Student, Technical Education.