The name of this welfare scheme is Grant of Annual Scholarship to the Students Belonging to UT of Puducherry Selected and Studying in the Sainik School, Amaravathi Nagar, Tamil Nadu. It is also known as GASSUTPSSATN. The scheme &quot;Grant of Annual Scholarship to the Students Belonging to UT of Puducherry Selected and Studying in the Sainik School, Amaravathi Nagar, Tamil Nadu&quot; is a Scholarship Scheme by the Directorate of School Education, Union Territory of Puducherry. A scholarship of ₹10,000/- per annum per student is disbursed directly into the Aadhaar-seeded viable bank account by Direct Benefit Transfer (DBT) through the Electronic Clearance System (ECS). In order to be eligible, the applicant should have studied from an educational institution located in the UT of Puducherry in Government or Private Schools recognised by the State/Central Governments. The scheme targets beneficiaries such as Individual. It is specifically implemented in Puducherry. Additionally, the nodal department is School Education Department, Puducherry.

The scheme provides the following benefits: > Scholarship

₹10,000/per annum per student.
> Mode of Disbursal

The amount is disbursed directly into the Aadhaarseeded viable bank account by Direct Benefit Transfer (DBT) through the Electronic Clearance System (ECS).

Eligibility criteria include: The applicant should be domiciled in the Union Territory of Puducherry.
The applicant should be a recipient of the National Child Award for Exceptional Achievements and Other National / International Merit Awards
The applicant should study in an educational institution run by any State Government/ Central Government/ Private School recognized by the respective State/Central Government.
The applicant should be a citizen of India.
The applicant should belong to the UT of Puducherry either by birth or domicile i.e. continuous residence of not less than 5 years.
The applicant should have studied from the educational institution run by any State Government/ Central Government/ Private School recognized by the respective State/Central Government.
The applicant should be studying in the Sainik School, Amaravathi Nagar, Tamil Nadu. The application process is as follows: Step 1: The interested applicant should visit the Principal, Sainik School, Amaravathi Nagar, TamilNadu, and request the hard copy of the prescribed format of the application form for the concerned scheme.
Step 2: In the application form, fill in all the mandatory fields, paste the passportsized photograph (signed across, if required), and attach copies of all the mandatory documents (selfattest, if required).
Step 3: The interested applicant should submit the duly filled and signed application form and the documents to the Principal. The Principal then sends the applications to the Directorate of School Education, Puducherry. For more information, please refer to: Guidelines: https://schooledn.py.gov.in/Welfare/InnerPages/edu_UTStudentScholarship.html Tags associated with the scheme include: Education, Scholarship, School, Student.