The name of this welfare scheme is The Meghalaya Victim Compensation Scheme, 2022. It is also known as TMVCS. The Meghalaya Victim Compensation Scheme, 2022 is a social welfare scheme introduced by the Social Welfare Department, Govt. of Meghalaya. Under this scheme, financial assistance to the victim along with support services such as shelter, counseling, medical aid, legal assistance, education, and vocational training depend upon the needs of the victim. The scheme shall apply to the victims and their dependent(s), or the member(s) of the family of the victim, who have suffered loss, or injury as the case may be, as a result of the crime and who require rehabilitation. The scheme targets beneficiaries such as Family, Individual. It is specifically implemented in Meghalaya. Additionally, the nodal department is Social Welfare Department.

It falls under the categories: Social welfare & Empowerment, Public Safety,Law & Justice.

Eligibility criteria include: If the offender is not traced or identified, the victim may also apply for a grant of compensation under subsection (4) of section 357A of the Act to meet expenses for physical and mental rehabilitation. 


The victim or claimant must report the crime to the officerincharge of the local Police Station or to the Magistrate having jurisdiction before making claim for the compensation or suomoto cognizance taken of the crime by the police under whose jurisdiction the offense was committed.


The victim or claimant (in the case of the death of the victim) shall fully cooperate with the police and prosecution from the stage of investigation till the conclusion of the trial of the case. Turning hostile or refusing to depose or failing to appear during trial shall be considered to be noncooperation.


The crime must be one in which the victim sustains mental or bodily injury or dies.


The death or permanent incapacitation of the victim was not the result of suicide or selfinfliction of bodily or mental injury or a result of the victim’s own wrongdoing.


The victim has not been compensated for the loss or injury under any other scheme of the Central or the State Government or Insurance Company or any other institutions.


Perpetrators of the crime or their dependents will not be eligible for any compensation under the scheme.


(Explanation: The victim shall inform the authority of the details of claims for compensation made under any other scheme or from any other source. The victim may exercise the option to choose another scheme of Government if the same is more beneficial to him. The victim will not be entitled to lay claim to both benefits and part benefit from one scheme and part from another). For more information, please refer to: Guidelines: https://meghalaya.gov.in/sites/default/files/schemes/POL_191_2004_Pt_I_780.pdf Tags associated with the scheme include: Counselling, Legal Aid, Rehabilitation, Shelter, Victim.