The name of this welfare scheme is Vocational Training to the Dependents. It is also known as VTD. The &quot;Vocational Training to the Dependents&quot; was launched by the A.P. Building &amp; Other Construction Workers Welfare Board provides a residential skill training program for 15,000 dependents of registered construction workers and covers the training cost, boarding, and lodging, with no financial burden on the government. The program focuses on enhancing the employability of dependents through training in various trades. The training is conducted by APMES Society under the Employment &amp; Training Department and includes placement-linked support. The scheme targets beneficiaries such as Individual. It is specifically implemented in Andhra Pradesh. Additionally, the nodal department is Labour Department.

The scheme provides the following benefits: Cost of training to each trainee ₹15,000/.
Free boarding and lodging for trainees.
Placementlinked training, ensuring better job prospects.

Eligibility criteria include: The applicant should be a dependent (spouse or adolescent child) of a registered construction worker.
The worker should be registered with the A.P. Building &amp; Other Construction Workers Welfare Board. The application process is as follows: Step1: The interested applicant should visit (during office hours) the A.P. Building &amp; Other Construction Workers Welfare Board and request a hard copy of the prescribed format of the application form from the staff exclusively entrusted to issue and collect filledin applications.
Step2: In the application form, fill in all the mandatory fields, and attach copies of all the mandatory documents (selfattest, if required).
Step3: Submit the duly filled and signed application form along with the documents to the Assistant Labour Officer/Assistant Commissioner of Labour.
Step4: Request a receipt or acknowledgement from the Assistant Labour Officer/Assistant Commissioner of Labour to whom the application has been submitted. Ensure that the receipt contains essential details such as the date and time of submission, and a unique identification number (if applicable). For more information, please refer to: Guidelines: https://apbocwwb.ap.nic.in/APBOCWW3/2016LETF_MS14.PDF Official Website: https://apbocwwb.ap.nic.in/apbocwwbhome.jsp Tags associated with the scheme include: Construction Worker, Dependents, Financial Assistance, Vocational Training.