The name of this welfare scheme is Snehapoorvam Scheme. It is also known as Ss-kerala. Kerala Government has launched a noble initiative “Snehapoorvam Scheme” to provide financial assistance to orphans who are living in the family, with their relatives, friends, or the support of the community under the Social Welfare Department implemented through Social Security Mission. The mission has initiated this scheme that aims at bringing these children to the mainstream of society.
            The statistics reveal that in Kerala, around 75,000 children below 18 years are living in orphanages. Around 1500 orphanages are functioning in Kerala. Almost 80- 90% of the children in orphanages have families and relatives. Many orphans and vulnerable children slip further into poverty once the family’s main breadwinner stops working or dies. There is nothing more traumatic for a child than to see a parent die. Added to this tragedy is the loss of adult guidance and protection. Children without proper adult care are more likely to be abused &amp;amp; exploited.
            Children in this category include orphans, abandoned children, children who have lost their parents in war, communal riots, natural disasters, accidents, etc. They are not properly fed; they have no shelter, nutritious food, health care, education, or any recreation. Most of them are facing economic and social exploitation. They are deprived of the love and affection of the family and are often unwanted by family members.
Objectives of the Scheme:

   1. To identify the orphaned children in the community.
   1. To assess and prioritize children in the greatest need.
   1. To provide social protection to highly vulnerable groups of orphans by strengthening traditional family and community systems for protecting and absorbing orphans.
   1. To improve the basic education, social integration, and nutrition of the most vulnerable groups of orphans towards the levels of other children in the community.
   1. To encourage families to live their children within the family setup rather than sending them to orphanages.
   1. To extend a helping hand to these orphan families by way of providing financial assistance for the education of children. The scheme targets beneficiaries such as Individual. It is specifically implemented in Kerala. The implementing agency is Kerala Social Security Mission. Additionally, the nodal department is Social Justice Department.

The scheme provides the following benefits: Sl. No.Class/Degree/CourseAmount of Assistance1Children below 5 years and Class I to V₹300/per month2Class VI to Class X ₹500/per month3Class XI and Class XII₹750/per month4Degree Courses / Professional Degree₹1000/per month

Eligibility criteria include: The applicant should be a resident of Kerala State.
   The child who has lost either father or mother or both.
   The applicant should belong to Below Poverty Line (BPL) category.
   The students from the first standard to degree classes are eligible to apply under the scheme.
   For children belonging to Above Poverty Line (APL) category, annual income should be below ₹ 20,000 in rural areas (Local body/Grama Panchayat) and ₹22,375 in urban areas (Corporation/ Municipality).

Note: Candidate children below 5 years of age can be directly eligible. The application process is as follows: Step 01: To avail of the benefits of the scheme, the application form duly filled and necessary documents should be submitted to the head of Aided/Govt. institutions (Schools and Colleges) before 31st October of every year.
Step 02: The head of the institution will verify and submit the application through the online portal to Executive Director, Kerala Social Security Mission.
Note: Children below 5 years can directly apply to Executive Director, Kerala Social Security Mission through the respective child welfare committees. For more information, please refer to: Official Website: https://socialsecuritymission.gov.in/scheme_info.php?id=NA== Application Form: https://socialsecuritymission.gov.in/vmcatalogue/notifications/2d924e1ec888aaff6d71bbaf2f050a76.pdf Tags associated with the scheme include: APL, BPL, Children, Financial Assistance, Orphan, School, Student.