The name of this welfare scheme is Grant of Token Amount for Construction of House for the Construction Workers. It is also known as GTACHCW. The &amp;quot;Grant of Token Amount for Construction of House for the Construction Workers&amp;quot; by the Building and Other Construction Workers Welfare Board, Labour Department, U.T. Administration of Dadra and Nagar Haveli and Daman and Diu, is a welfare scheme for the registered workers of the board. Under this scheme, registered beneficiaries of the board shall be provided with financial assistance for construction of house in their own land. The scheme targets beneficiaries such as Individual. It is specifically implemented in The Dadra And Nagar Haveli And Daman And Diu. Additionally, the nodal department is Labour & Employment Department, Dadra and Nagar Haveli.

The scheme provides the following benefits: Token Amount: ₹75,000/.

For applicants covered under Pradhan Mantri Awas Yojna (Gramin): ₹28,000/.For applicants covered under Pradhan Mantri Awas Yojna (Urban):


For Affordable Housing in Partnership (AHP): ₹1,30,000/.For Beneficiary Led Construction (BLC): ₹50,000/.

Eligibility criteria include: &gt; For Registration as a Building/ Construction Worker:


  The applicant should be a resident of U.T. Administration of Dadra and Nagar Haveli and Daman and Diu.
  The applicant should be a Building/ Construction Worker.
  The applicant should be between 18 and 60 years.
  The applicant should have engaged in any building or other construction work for at least 90 days in a given year.

&gt; For the Application of the Welfare Scheme:


  Registered member Under the Building and Other Construction Workers Welfare Board of U.T. Administration of Dadra and Nagar Haveli and Daman and Diu.
  The applicant should have completed one year membership with the Board.
  The applicant should not have a pucca house.
  The proposed house should be constructed on the applicant&amp;#39;s own land. The application process is as follows: &gt; Registration Process as a Building/ Construction Worker:

Step 1: Application for registration is to be made in the prescribed form and is to be accompanied by prescribed documents and a fee of not more than ₹50/.
Step 2: Application for registration has to be made to the officer authorized by the Board on this behalf.
&gt; Application Process of the Welfare Scheme:

Step 1: Any registered worker can make an application in the prescribed FormIV (Refer Page No: 9)  along with the mandatory documents  (self attested, if required).
Step 2: Application shall be submitted to the Member Secretary (BOCWWB) for this benefit.
&gt; Check Beneficiary Details: Visit the official website and enter the “BOCW Registration No.” of the concerned beneficiary in the Search box.

Helpdesk:
BOCW Department:
EMAIL ID: labourdnh@nic.in
PHONE NUMBER : 0260 2642374
ADDRESS:
Old Circuit House Building,
Opposite Bal Bhawan, Silvassa,
Dadra and Nagar Haveli
Pin:396230 For more information, please refer to: Guidelines: https://bocwddd.in/welfare-schemes/dnh/construction-of-residential-house Guidelines: https://bocwddd.in/welfare-schemes/dnh/construction-of-residential-house Official Website: https://bocwddd.in/ Tags associated with the scheme include: Building Workers, Construction Of House, Construction Workers, Labour.