The name of this welfare scheme is Design Scheme Under MSME Innovative Scheme. It is also known as DS. Launched by the Ministry of Micro, Small &amp;amp; Medium Enterprises ,Design scheme will help MSMEs to avail advice on all aspects of design. It helps MSMEs realize and achieve their design-related objectives. This specialist advice will be provided by experienced designers for new product development as well as enhancing existing product portfolio.
The Design scheme is divided in two major parts, viz., Design Projects and Design Awareness Programme.
Design Project: To facilitate MSMEs to develop new design strategies and or design-related products through interventions and consultancy.
Design Awareness Programme: The objective is to create general awareness and sensitization about the value and power of design for businesses through seminars, talks, workshops etc. The purpose of these activities is to sensitize MSMEs about the usage of design/innovation in various facets of their industry. The scheme targets beneficiaries such as University / Institution, Business Entity. Additionally, the nodal ministry is Ministry Of Micro, Small and Medium Enterprises.

The scheme provides the following benefits: Design Project: Financial assistance under this activity will be utilised for engagement of design consultants for design interventions and expenses pertaining to development of prototype/product. For the design projects approved for any MSME, 75% (Micro) and 60% (Small &amp;amp; Medium) of the total project cost will be contributed by Government of India, up to a maximum of ₹ 40,000,00/and the remaining project cost will be borne by MSMEs and deposited to the IA.
The total project cost will be provided as a grant in 3 stages:
Stage 1: Strategy &amp;amp; Concept40%
Stage 2: Detail Design 30%
Stage 3: Successful Completion of the prototype/product and Final Report submission 30%.
&lt;br&gt;

Student Project: This component supports design work of bonafide students by providing financial assistance up to ₹ 2,50,000/. For the student design projects approved for any MSME,75% of the total project cost will be contributed by Government of India, up to a maximum of ₹ 2,50,000/and the remaining project cost will be borne by MSME and deposited to the IA.

Eligibility criteria include: The beneficiary unit(s) must typically be a registered micro, small or medium enterprises.
Should have a valid Udyog Aadhaar Memorandum (UAM) or Udyam Registration certificate. The application process is as follows: Registration Process:
Step 01: After opening the website https://innovative.msme.gov.in/ , click on Design.
Step 02: On the next window, click on Join Design Scheme.
Step 03: Put the Udyam Registration Number along with the Registered Moblile Number.
Step 04: Click on Validate. For more information, please refer to: Guidelines: https://innovative.msme.gov.in/Home/AboutUs FAQs: https://innovative.msme.gov.in/Documents/MSME_InnovativeFAQ.pdf Tags associated with the scheme include: Business & Entrepreneurship, Financial Support, Product Design, Product Development.