The name of this welfare scheme is Development and Maintenance of Orchard Cum Horti Nurseries. It is also known as DMOCHN. The scheme “Development and Maintenance of Orchard Cum Horti Nurseries” was launched by the Department of Agriculture &amp;amp; Farmers’ Welfare, Government of Meghalaya for the production and multiplication of good, high-yielding, diseased free planting materials in the Government farms for distribution to farmers through District Horticulture Officer. The scheme targets beneficiaries such as Individual. It is specifically implemented in Meghalaya. The implementing agency is Department Of Agriculture & Farmers’ Welfare, Government Of Meghalaya. Additionally, the nodal department is Agriculture Department.

The scheme provides the following benefits: > Pattern of Assistance:

Training, awareness program, extension, technology support.
&gt; Type of Assistance:


  Production and multiplication of good, highyielding, diseased free planting materials for sale.
  Introduction of new highyielding varieties of mother plants, suitable to the different areas of the State.

Eligibility criteria include: The applicant should be a permanent resident of Meghalaya.
   The applicant should be a bonafide farmer engaged in agriculture.
   The applicant/farmer should own or lease land of at least 200 sq.ms. The application process is as follows: &gt; Application Process:

Step 01: The eligible bonafide farmer can apply/write an application on plain paper.
Step 02: Along with the application, attach copies of all the mandatory documents (selfattest, if required).
Step 03: Submit the duly filled and signed application along with the documents at your nearest office of the Horticulture Development Officer of a CD Block/Horticulture Circle.
&gt; Mode of Selection of Beneficiary(s):

The eligible bonafide farmers shall be selected on a first come first serve basis.
&gt; Whom to Contact: Below officials can be contacted for any concerns or queries:


  District Horticulture Officer  Horticulture Development Officer For more information, please refer to: Official Website: https://megagriculture.gov.in/PUBLIC/schemes_ShowSchemesH.aspx?schid=103 FAQs: https://megagriculture.gov.in/PUBLIC/dwd_docs/FAQONHORTICULTURESCHEMES.pdf Tags associated with the scheme include: Agriculture, Farmer, Horticulture, Orchard, Training.