The name of this welfare scheme is PRL Junior Research Fellowships. It is also known as PRLJRF. The Physical Research Laboratory (PRL), a prestigious institution under the Department of Space, Government of India, launched the Junior Research Fellowship (JRF) Program. The JRF program aims to provide highly motivated and academically excellent candidates with an opportunity to pursue cutting-edge research in a variety of science domains, such as Astronomy and astrophysics, atomic, Molecular, and optical Physics, Geosciences, Planetary Sciences, Space and Atmospheric Sciences, Solar Physics, and Theoretical Physics. The scheme targets beneficiaries such as Individual. Additionally, the nodal ministry is Ministry Of Science And Technology and the nodal department is Department of Space.

The scheme provides the following benefits: Fellowship Allowance:
•	Junior Research Fellow (JRF): ₹37,000/per month.
•	Senior Research Fellow (SRF, after 2 years): ₹42,000/per month (based on performance review).


Platinum Jubilee Research Fellowship (ATAL):
•	Selected meritorious JRFs may receive an additional ATAL fellowship of ₹40,000/per month (for 3rd to 5th year).


Ph.D. Registration:
•	Fellows have the opportunity to register for a Ph.D. at an institute/university with an MoU with PRL.

Eligibility criteria include: The applicant should be an Indian citizen.
The applicant should have studied at recognized Universities/Institutes in India.
The applicant’s age should be 28 years as of 01st July The applicant should complete a Bachelor’s and Master’s degree in science or engineering with at least 60% marks (or equivalent) at both levels.
Candidates from disciplines of any branch of Physics, Chemistry, Engineering Physics, Photonics, Space Physics, Atmospheric Science, Environmental Science, Oceanography, Meteorology, Geology, Geophysics, Earth Science and Remote Sensing are eligible to apply.
The applicant should be interested in pursuing a research career in the current research areas at PRL, and must have qualified in any one of the following exams:



  CSIRUGCNET JRF/AP (2022 or later) in Physical Sciences/Chemical Sciences/Earth, Atmospheric, Ocean, and Planetary Sciences.
  GATE (2022 or later) in relevant subjects.
  JEST (2024) in Physics.
  UGCNET JRF/AP (2022 or later) in Environmental Sciences. The application process is as follows: Step01: The applicant visits the PRL website and navigate to the &quot;Opportunities&quot; section.
Step02: Click on &quot;Job Vacancies &amp; Fellowship Programs&quot; and select &quot;PRL Junior Research Fellowships&quot; to access the online application form. 
Step03: Fill out the online application form by completing all the mandatory fields and attaching selfattested copies of the required documents.
Step04: Submit the application by clicking on the &quot;Submit&quot; button. Upon submission, you will receive an application ID for future reference.


Note: A valid email ID and Mobile Number are mandatory for registration. Email ID should be kept active until the end of the admission process. The status of successful registration will be sent to the registered email ID. For more information, please refer to: Guidelines: https://www.prl.res.in/prl-eng/phd Tags associated with the scheme include: Fellowship, Opportunity, Programme, Research.