The name of this welfare scheme is Vermicompost Ikai. It is also known as VI. The Vermicompost Ikai under the Agriculture Department Rajasthan government provides subsidies to farmers. Through the organic manure method, good quality manure can be prepared in a very short time under normal temperatures in which entire species of earthworms are used. In this, the cellulose and microorganisms present in the intestines of earthworms together decompose the ingested organic matter very rapidly. Due to the effect of their digestive process and the combined mixture of organic matter, these earthworms leave out a waste material which is called vermicomposting and these Manure pits are not found without earthworms.


> Important points


1. Verification can be done by the committee formed after construction.
1. After physical verification, the grant amount will be paid directly into the farmer&#39;s bank account. The scheme targets beneficiaries such as Individual. It is specifically implemented in Rajasthan. Additionally, the nodal department is Agriculture Department.

The scheme provides the following benefits: Vermicomposting Unit with RCC Construction

   Size: 30 feet X 8 feet X 5 feet
   Cost: 50% of the installation cost, up to a maximum of ₹50,000/per unit
   Subsidy is proportional to the size of the unit

HDPE Vermibed Unit

   Size: 12 feet X 4 feet X 2 feet
   Cost: 50% of the installation cost, up to a maximum of ₹8,000/per unit
   Subsidy is proportional to the size of the unit

Eligibility criteria include: The applicant should be a native of Rajasthan.
The Applicants must Cultivate horticultural crops on a minimum of 4 hectares of own land.
The farmer must have livestock, water, and fossils available. The application process is as follows: > Registration

Step1: Applicant have to visit the official portal. 
Step2: Click on the option “Register”.
Step3: Then you will be redirected to the SSO registration page. The registration page will appear with the following options.


  Citizen


Step4: Choose the either one option from  the Jan Aadhaar Or Google to process further.


  Jan Aadhaar : Enter the Jan Aadhaar number, click on the ‘Next’ button,


      Select your name, the name of the head of the family and all the other members and 
      Click on the ‘Send OTP’ button. Enter the ‘OTP’ and 
      Click on the ‘Verify OTP’ button to Complete the registration. 






  Google : Enter the Gmail ID, click on the ‘Next’ button, 


      Enter the password.
      A new link appear on screen, now click on new SSO link.
      SSO id will appear on screen, now create the password.
      Enter Mobile number, click on registration.




Step5: Complete the registration process.


> Apply

Step1: Applicant have to visit the official portal. 
Step2: After login, dashboard will open.
Step3: Click on “ RAJKISAN ” option. 
Step4: In &quot;Farmer&quot;, click on &quot;Application Entry Request&quot;.
Step5: Enter the &quot;Bhamashah ID&quot; or &quot;Janaadhaar ID&quot; and search.  
Step6: Select the person name and scheme name. 
Step7: Complete the Aadhaar Authentication and click on Get details. 
Step8: Provide the required details.
            Pensioner Details.
            Bank Details.
            Disability Details.
            Verification Details.
            Upload Documents.
Step9: Submit. For more information, please refer to: Guidelines: https://rajkisan.rajasthan.gov.in/Rajkisanweb/Kisan Registration: https://sso.rajasthan.gov.in/register Login: https://sso.rajasthan.gov.in/signin Tags associated with the scheme include: Agriculture, Farmer, Fertilizer.