The name of this welfare scheme is Odisha Sahaya Scheme - Pre & Post Matric Scholarship. It is also known as OSSPPMS. The Social Security and Empowerment of Persons with Disabilities (SSEPD) Department, Government of Odisha recognizes that beggars are valuable human resources for society and seeks to create an environment that provides them equal opportunities, protection of their rights, and full participation in society.  The SSEPD Department, Government of Odisha, as part of an integrated initiative for beggars, promotes the scheme “SAHAYA-PRE &amp; POST MATRIC SCHOLARSHIP” to provide financial assistance to child beggars and children of beggars studying at pre and post-matriculation or post-secondary stages to enable them to complete their education. These scholarships are available to child beggars and children of beggars for studies in India only and are awarded where the applicant is studying. The scheme targets beneficiaries such as Individual. It is specifically implemented in Odisha. Additionally, the nodal department is Social Security and Empowerment of Persons with Disabilities Department.

The scheme provides the following benefits: The students desirous to avail of the scholarship shall submit applications in the prescribed format to the DSSO with certification/ recommendation by the head of the educational institutions.  
Under this scheme students so eligible will get a scholarship for a maximum period of 10 months in an academic year. The students availing scholarships from either the Central or State Govt. under any other scheme shall not be considered.
Rate of scholarship  

PreMatric (From Std. V to X) ₹ 800 Per month. 
PostMatric (From Std. XI–XII) ₹ 1,000 Per month.
General Graduate/ Post Graduate Courses ₹ 1,500 Per month. 
Professional Degrees/ Diplomas/ Certificates ₹ 2,000 Per month.

 The DSSOs will scrutinize the applications and shall submit requirement of funds to the Department by the end of September. After receipt of the funds, DSSOs will remit the scholarship to the accounts of the students with the approval of the Collector.  
The scholarship required will be remitted in advance for one year in question and roll over to the next academic session.  
The utilization certificate on the expenditure shall be submitted by the DSSO along with proof of remittance with due counter signature of the Collector to the Department by 28th February of each year.  
Efforts should be made to utilize funds in the same year. In exigencies, the undisbursed balance amount should be rolled over for next year&#39;s payment and shall be utilized first.

Eligibility criteria include: The applicant is a bona fide resident of Odisha. 
The applicant is either a beggar or child of a beggar. 
The applicant is a regular student of recognized educational institutions.  
The applicant shall have family income of not more than Rs. 2, 40,000/per annum.  
The applicant is not in receipt of any financial assistance from State Govt./ Central Govt. under any other scheme. The application process is as follows: The students desiring to avail of the scholarship will submit an application as given in Annexure B (page no 17 of the pdf ) through the head of institutions immediately after taking admission.
 
Note: 

The head of the institution on receipt of such applications will verify the information given therein with reference to records available, and recommend for sanction to the concerned District Social Security Officer (DSSO). 
On the receipt of all such recommended applications, the concerned DSSOs will scrutinize the applications and get those sanctioned by the Collector as per rules and procedures.
DSSO, as the case may be, after sanctioning the scholarship, will place Block and ULB wise requirement of funds to the Department under intimation to the Collector concerned.
After sanction of the scholarship amount, the DSSO /head of the institution will ensure that a bank account is opened in the name of the candidate in case the candidate is 18 years of age or above, or a joint account in the name of the father/mother/ guardian of the candidates in case the candidate is below 18 years. 
The District Social Security Officer (DSSO) will see that such a requirement reaches him / her by the given date line.  
After receipt of the requirement from the DSSO, the Department will release funds in the first allotment to the DSSOs &amp; they will remit the fund to the students directly.  
After disbursement, the DSSOs will submit consolidated UCs to the Department by the 31st of March with the due countersignature of the Collector.  
The scholarship will be payable from the month of admission up to the end of the academic session including the month of examination subject to a maximum of 10 months in an academic year. 
For continued absence for a period not exceeding three months, the scholarship shall be paid in full, provided that the absence is on health grounds. In case of continuous prolonged absence without justified reasons, the DSSO concerned shall take a decision after making an inquiry.  
The DSSOs will make online entries of data on students including information on passing out from the course followed by certification. For more information, please refer to: Guideline: https://ssepd.odisha.gov.in/sites/default/files/2022-05/Scheme%20for%20Beggars-Final.pdf Tags associated with the scheme include: Beggars, Odisha, Post-Matrics, Pre-Matrics, Scholarship.