The name of this welfare scheme is Reimbursement/ Spot Exemption of Sales Tax on High-Speed Diesel Oil. It is also known as RSESTHSDO-FAASCDMF. The scheme &quot;Reimbursement/ Spot Exemption of Sales Tax on High-Speed Diesel Oil&quot; is a Sub-Component under the Umbrella Scheme &quot;Financial Assistance for Availing Subsidy Components for the Development of Marine Fisheries&quot; by the Department of Fisheries and Fishermen Welfare, Government of Puducherry. The scheme is introduced with the objective of reimbursement of sales tax on high-speed diesel oil used by the registered mechanized boat operators. The scheme targets beneficiaries such as Individual. It is specifically implemented in Puducherry. Additionally, the nodal department is Fisheries and Fishermen Welfare Department, Puducherry.

The scheme provides the following benefits: The prevailing sales tax on highspeed diesel oil consumed by a registered boat will be reimbursed/spotexempted subject to a maximum of 15,000 liters per boat per annum, as may be revised by Government from time to time.

Eligibility criteria include: The applicant should either belong to the fishermen community or be one of those professionally engaged in fishing/fish trade occupation on a fulltime basis/prospective entrepreneurs.
The applicant must have resided in the Union territory of Puducherry for a continuous period of not less than five years at the time of applying for extending subsidies/ grants. 
The applicant must have been enrolled as a member of the Fishermen Cooperative Society and be above the age of 23 years and below 60 years.
The applicant must not have been a recipient of Old Age Pension, issued by the department. 
The applicant should not be employed in Government/ Government Undertakings/Fishermen Cooperative Society. 
The applicant must not have any dues to be paid to the Department/Fishermen Cooperative Societies at the time of making the application. 
The applicant should possess a registered mechanized boat/motorized fishing craft and the same should have been renewed on annual basis, as the case may be. 
The applicant should have renewed the diesel passbook on a monthly basis. 
The applicant should submit bills as proof of having drawn diesel, from the authorised bunks. 
The applicant should not have ventured fishing during notified fish ban periods. The application process is as follows: Step 1: The interested applicant should visit the Office/ SubOffice of the Department of Fisheries and Fishermen Welfare.
Step 1: The interested applicant should request the hard copy of the prescribed format of the application form from the concerned authority.
Step 2: In the application form, fill in all the mandatory fields, paste the passportsized photograph (signed across, if required), and attach copies of all the mandatory documents (selfattest, if required).
Step 3: Submit the duly filled and signed application form along with the documents to the concerned authority.
Step 4: Request a receipt or acknowledgment from the concerned authority to whom the application has been submitted. Ensure that the receipt contains essential details such as the date and time of submission, and a unique identification number (if applicable). For more information, please refer to: Guidelines: https://fisheries.py.gov.in/sites/default/files/reimbursement20of20hsd20notification.pdf Application Form: https://fisheries.py.gov.in/sites/default/files/subsidies-application007.pdf List Of Sub-Offices: https://fisheries.py.gov.in/sub-offices Contact Us: https://fisheries.py.gov.in/contact-us Tags associated with the scheme include: Diesel, Exemption, Fish, Fisherman, Oil, Reimbursement, Tax.