The name of this welfare scheme is Scheme For Award Of Stipend To The Schedule Tribe Students Of Arunachal Pradesh. It is also known as Sasstsap. The objective of Arunachal Pradesh State Stipend Scheme 2012 is to provide financial assistance to Scheduled Tribe students of Arunachal Pradesh so as to enable them to pursue various courses of Higher studies approved by the Government of Arunachal Pradesh. 


Below are the conditions for ﻿Award of Stipend:


1. The grant or continuance of stipend is subject to the satisfactory progress and good conduct of the student for the particular course for which he has applied for stipend. If it is reported by the Head of the Institution or local Administration that a stipend holder, by reason of his/her own act of default has failed to make satisfactory progress or has been found guilty of misconduct such as resorting to or participating in strike or political activities irregularity in attendance etc, the stipend shall be discontinued. 
2. The Government reserves the right to either cancel the stipend or stop or with-hold further payment to any student for such period as it may deem fit.
3. The stipend will not be admissible for the period when the institution is closed for vacation.
4. Stipend will be payable from the date of admission for a particular course provided. But if the student takes admission after 20th day of a month, the stipend shall be admissible from the next month onward.
5. The conditions for the award of stipend may be changed at any time at the discretion of the State Government without assigning any reasons whatsoever.
6. A stipend holder under this scheme will not avail stipend/scholarship from any other source. If any other stipend/scholarship is awarded to a student, he/she can opt for either of the two, which ever is beneficial to him/her and should surrender the other. 7. The stipend is not tenable for subsidiary/additional course such as L.L.B. with M.A. etc. The student who undergoes of two courses is given stipend for one course only. The scheme targets beneficiaries such as Individual. It is specifically implemented in Arunachal Pradesh. The implementing agency is Department Of Higher And Technical Education. Additionally, the nodal department is Education Department.

It falls under the categories: Education & Learning, Social welfare & Empowerment.

Eligibility criteria include: Below are the conditions of eligibility:


1) The stipend will be admissible to students who belong to Scheduled Tribes of the State as notified by the Central/State Government and are permanent resident of Arunachal Pradesh.
2) Scheduled Tribe students who are in fulltime employment are not eligible for award of stipend.
3) A student who fails in a class for a particular course of study/stream and gets readmitted in the same level of study for a different course/stream shall not be eligible for the award of stipend for that class.
4) A Girl student who fails in a class may be allowed one time stipend for same class in the next year with specific recommendation from the Head of Institution.
5) Students against whom disciplinary action is taken shall not be eligible for stipend.
6) Students whose attendance is below 75% in any month (unless for certified reasons of health or bereavement). shall not be eligible for award of stipend. 
7) Students who pursue their studies through correspondence course or distance education mode shall not be eligible for stipend.
8) Students pursuing their studies in institutions not recognized by the State or Central Regulators like UGC, AICTE, MCI, DCI, BCI, CCH. etc., shall not be eligible for award of stipend. Tags associated with the scheme include: Arunachal Pradesh, DBT Scheme, Direct Benefit Transfer, Scholarship For ST.