The name of this welfare scheme is Scheme to Award Scholarship to Young Artists. It is also known as STASTYA. The &quot;Scheme to Award Scholarship to Young Artists&quot; was launched by the Art and Culture Department, Government of Tamil Nadu. The scheme aims to encourage the postgraduate and graduate students of the Government College of Fine Arts, Chennai &amp; Kumbakonam by awarding scholarships every year, as recommended by the Principals of the Colleges. These scholarships are given to outstanding students studying in their final year B.F.A (Bachelor of Fine Arts) and outstanding students studying in their final year M.F.A (Master of Fine Arts). The scheme targets beneficiaries such as Individual. It is specifically implemented in Tamil Nadu. Additionally, the nodal department is Art and Culture Department.

The scheme provides the following benefits: Government College of Fine Arts, Chennai

Scholarship of ₹3,000/to 10 outstanding students studying in final year B.F.A. (Bachelor of Fine Arts).
Scholarship of ₹5,000/to 4 outstanding students studying in final year M.F.A. (Master of Fine Arts).

Government College of Fine Arts, Kumbakonam

Scholarship of ₹3,000/to 10 outstanding students studying in final year B.F.A. (Bachelor of Fine Arts).
Scholarship of ₹5,000/to 2 outstanding students studying in final year M.F.A. (Master of Fine Arts).

Eligibility criteria include: The applicant should be a student.
The applicant should be studying in the final year of B.F.A. or M.F.A. 
The applicant should be studying at the Government College of Fine Arts, Chennai or the Government College of Fine Arts, Kumbakonam. The application process is as follows: Step 1: The interested applicant requests the hard copy of the prescribed format of the application form (By the Kuzhu) from the Principal of the Government College of Fine Arts, Chennai and Kumbakonam. 
Step 2: In the application form, fill in all the mandatory fields, and attach copies of all the mandatory documents (selfattest, if required).
Step 3: Submit the duly filled and signed application form along with the documents to the Member Secretary, Tamil Nadu Oviya Nunkalai Kuzhu, Directorate of Art and Culture, Dr. D.G.S. Dinakaran Road, (Greenways Road) Chennai 600 Step 4: Request a receipt or acknowledgement from the concerned authority to whom the application has been submitted. Ensure that the receipt contains essential details such as the date and time of submission, and a unique identification number (if applicable). For more information, please refer to: Guidelines: https://www.tn.gov.in/rti/proactive/inftour/handbook_artculture.pdf Amount Of Scholarship: https://artandculture.tn.gov.in/oviya-nunkalai-kuzhu-schemes Tags associated with the scheme include: Artist, Award, Financial Assistance, Scholarship, Student.