The name of this welfare scheme is Fruit Processing Centre. It is also known as FPC. The scheme “Fruit Processing Centre” was launched by the Department of Agriculture &amp;amp; Farmers’ Welfare, Government of Meghalaya to disseminate technical knowhow to youth entrepreneurs, farmers, and housewives through the practical demonstration on the importance of fruit preservation and to manufacture quality processed fruit products such as Squashes, Jams, Jelly, canned fruits and Juices under the trade name ‘Meg Fruits Products’. The scheme targets beneficiaries such as Individual. It is specifically implemented in Meghalaya. The implementing agency is Department Of Agriculture & Farmers’ Welfare, Government Of Meghalaya. Additionally, the nodal department is Agriculture Department.

The scheme provides the following benefits: > Pattern of Assistance:

Training and Demonstration
> Type of Assistance:

Awareness, Capacity building on fruit and vegetable processing

Eligibility criteria include: The applicant should be a permanent resident of Meghalaya.
The applicant should be a bonafide farmer engaged in agriculture. The application process is as follows: &gt; Application Process:

Step 01: The bonafide farmer can apply/write an application on plain paper.
Step 02: Along with the application, attach copies of all the mandatory documents (selfattest, if required).
Step 03: Submit the duly filled and signed application along with the required documents at the nearest office of the Horticulture Development Officer of a CD Block/ Horticulture Circle.
&gt; Mode of Selection of Beneficiary(s):

The bonafide farmers shall be selected on a first come first serve basis.
&gt; Whom to Contact:

District Horticulture Officer
Assistant Director of Horticulture i/c FP Center
Horticulture Development Officer For more information, please refer to: Official Website: https://megagriculture.gov.in/PUBLIC/schemes_ShowSchemesH.aspx?schid=106 Tags associated with the scheme include: Demonstration, Farmer, Fruit Processing, Horticulture, Training, Vegetable Processing, Youth Entrepreneur.