The name of this welfare scheme is Early Intervention Centres for Children with Autism. It is also known as EICCA. The &quot;Early Intervention Centres for Children with Autism&quot; was launched by the Department for the Welfare of Differently Abled Persons, Government of Tamil Nadu. Under this scheme, Early intervention programme emphasizes attending to social stimuli, imitation skills, language comprehension and usage, appropriate play skills etc., 
EIC centers have been established at SRTC-Chennai and other locations, including RSRTC-Tiruchirapalli, Tirunelveli, Kanniyakumari, Thanjavur, Kancheepuram, Thiruvallur, Salem, Namakkal, Madurai, Erode, Coimbatore, Vellore, Thuthukudi, Villupuram, Virudhunagar, Cuddalore, Dindigul, and Thiruvannamalai. There is a need for early intervention to effectively combat the incidence of autism. The scheme targets beneficiaries such as Individual. It is specifically implemented in Tamil Nadu. Additionally, the nodal department is Welfare of Differently Abled Persons Department.

The scheme provides the following benefits: Early intervention helps children with Autism by addressing social stimuli, imitation skills, language comprehension and usage, and appropriate play skills.

Eligibility criteria include: A beneficiary child should be between 06 years old.
A beneficiary child should be affected by autism. The application process is as follows: Step 1: The parents/guardian should visit (during office hours) the District Differently Abled Welfare Officer and request a hard copy of the prescribed format of the application form from the staff exclusively entrusted to issue and collect filledin applications.
Step 2: In the application form, fill in all the mandatory fields, and attach copies of all the mandatory documents (selfattest, if required).
Step 3: Submit the duly filled and signed application form along with the documents to the District Differently Abled Welfare Officer.
Step 4: Request a receipt or acknowledgment from the District Differently Abled Welfare Officer to whom the application has been submitted. Ensure that the receipt contains essential details such as the date and time of submission, and a unique identification number (if applicable). For more information, please refer to: Citizen's Charter (2022): https://cms.tn.gov.in/sites/default/files/documents/wda_e_cc_2022_23.pdf Tags associated with the scheme include: Autism, Differently Abled Person, Skill, Social Welfare.