The name of this welfare scheme is Education Loan Scheme- Credit Line 1 for Minority Community. It is also known as ELS-CL1MC. The scheme &amp;quot;Education Loan Scheme- Credit Line 1 for Minority Community&amp;quot; is implemented by the Haryana Backward Classes and Economically Weaker Sections Kalyan Nigam. Under the scheme, education loans are provided for pursuing general/professional/ technical courses or training at the graduate and/or higher level to minority communities (Muslims, Sikhs, Christians, Buddhists, Parsis, and Jains) as notified by the Government of India. The Nigam provides loans up to ₹20,00,000/- for studies in India and up to ₹30,00,000/- for studies abroad at an interest rate of 3%. Beneficiaries must have obtained admission to a professional or technical course approved by an appropriate agency such as AICTE, Medical Council of India, UGC, etc. in a recognized institute and must have secured a minimum of 50% marks in the qualifying exam. The scheme targets beneficiaries such as Individual. It is specifically implemented in Haryana. The implementing agency is Haryana Backward Classes And Economically Weaker Sections Kalyan Nigam. Additionally, the nodal department is Welfare of Scheduled Caste & Backward Classes Department.

The scheme provides the following benefits: Under this scheme, Nigam provides loans up to ₹20,00,000/for studies in India and up to ₹30,00,000/for studies abroad at an interest rate of 3%.
   The education loans are provided for pursuing general/professional/technical courses or training at the graduate and/or higher level to minority communities i.e. Muslims, Sikhs, Christians, Buddhists, Parsis, and Jains.

Eligibility criteria include: The applicant should be a permanent resident of Haryana.
   The applicant should be between 16 and 32 years old.
   The annual family income of the applicant should not exceed ₹98,000/(Rural Area) and ₹1,20,000/(Urban Area).
   The applicant should belong to a minority community, i.e. Muslims, Sikhs, Christians, Buddhists, Parsis, and Jains.
   The applicant should have obtained admission to any professional and technical course approved by an appropriate agency such as AICTE, Medical Council of India, UGC, etc., in a duly accredited/recognized institute.
   The applicant must have secured a minimum of 50% marks in the qualifying exam i.e., the exam whose qualification is a prerequisite for the course.
   The applicant should have a Parivaar Pehchan Patra (PPP ID). The application process is as follows: &gt; Registration Process on AntyodayaSARAL Portal:

Step 01: The eligible applicant may apply online through the Official PortalAntyodayaSARAL Portal. https://saralharyana.gov.in/
Step 02: If the applicant is not registered on the portal, he/she gets registered there. 
Step 03: For registration, click “New User” under ‘Sign In Here’ and fill in all the mandatory details i.e. Name, Email ID, Mobile Number, Password &amp;amp; State. Click on ‘Submit’.
Step 04: Verify your mobile number and email ID through the received OTP and complete the registration process.
&gt; Login to apply for the scheme:

Step 01: To avail the benefits of the scheme, visit the Official AntyodayaSARAL Portal and log in through the email ID used while registering.
Step 02: Enter Password &amp;amp; Captcha and click on ‘Login’.
Step 03: After successful login, click on ‘Apply for Services’ and then ‘View all Available Services’
Step 04: Now, you can search for the scheme and click on the scheme to go ahead and fill out the application form.
Step 05: Enter your Parivar Pehchan Patra number Family ID and click on “Click here to Fetch Family Data” which displays the family members registered under the given Family ID.
Step 06: Select the beneficiary/applicant name and enter the OTP that is being sent to the selected family member for verification. Click on “Click to Verify”
Step 07: Fill in all the mandatory details and upload all the mandatory documents.
Step 08: Preview the application form and click on ‘Submit’.
&gt; Tracking of Application:

Applicants can track their applications through the Official AntyodayaSARAL Portal by entering their Department Name, Scheme Name, and Application Reference ID. For more information, please refer to: Scheme Details: https://kms.saralharyana.nic.in/ViewDoc?Id=5+Vx7fJ9GFkhVJ+pXaMLMQ%3d%3d Official Website: https://www.haryanascbc.gov.in/contribution-towards-share-capital-to-haryana-backward-classes-and-economically-weaker-sections Antyodaya-SARAL Portal: https://saralharyana.gov.in/ Tags associated with the scheme include: Credit Line, Education Loan, Higher Education, Minority Community.