The name of this welfare scheme is Investment Promotion Scheme (IPS) for MSME Sector: Awards For MSMEs. It is also known as IPSAFMSME. The scheme “Awards For MSMEs” is a sub scheme under the “Investment Promotion Scheme (IPS)” for MSME Sector. It was launched on 3rd July, 2015 for a period of five years by the Dept. of Industries, U.T. Administration Of Dadra &amp;amp; Nagar Haveli And Daman &amp;amp; Diu. Now it has been extended further from 20th May, 2022 and shall be operative till 19th May, 2027.
&gt; Objective of the &amp;quot;Investment Promotion Scheme (IPS)”:

The scheme envisages to provide incentives and assistance to the MSME Sector in order to nurture them and protect them from market vagaries thereby making them vibrant and successful, maximize Women participation in the business sector, reduce unemployment among the local residents and incentivize the industries to employ resident laborers etc.
&gt; Objective of the &amp;quot;Awards For MSMEs&amp;quot; Sub-scheme:

Under this scheme, awards will be given for Best MSMEs under Micro, Small and Medium Category, for the following achievements:

  - MSME achieving highest growth in turnover over an year.
  - MSME achieving highest growth in exports over an year.
  - MSME achieving highest growth in employment over an year.
  - Achieving International certification over an year.

An MSME unit is eligible to receive awards for a period of three years in the entire scheme period of five years, if found eligible for the award. Secretary (Industries) is the recommendatory Authority for scrutiny and finalization of the nominations received and Hon’ble Administrator is awarding Authority in IPS-2022. The scheme targets beneficiaries such as Business Entity, Industries. It is specifically implemented in The Dadra And Nagar Haveli And Daman And Diu. Additionally, the nodal department is Industries Department, Dadra and Nagar Haveli.

The scheme provides the following benefits: Award of ₹2,00,000/.
  Trophy.
  Appreciation letter.

Eligibility criteria include: Should be a New Manufacturing/ Service units or Existing Manufacturing/ Service units which undertakes Expansion/ Diversification in MSME sector.
The unit should have commenced the commercial production between 2022 to Unit should be located in the U.T. of Dadra and Nagar Haveli &amp;amp; Daman and Diu. The application process is as follows: &gt; Registration Process:

Step 1: Visit the Registration page of the Official Website.
Step 2: Provide the information in the respective input spaces and click on “Register”.
Step 3: Verify your email address using the verification link sent on your email (If Mail is Not Received Your Inbox. Please Check the Spam).
Step 4: Click the Link/URL in the received email or Paste Link/URL in browser&amp;#39;s address bar to complete your Account Verification.
Step 5: Now enter “111111” as OTP to verify your mobile number. Mobile Number and Pin Successfully will be sent to the registered Email Address.
Step 6: On successful registration the login credentials will be received in the registered email.
&gt; Application Process:

Step 1: Visit the user Login page of the Official Website.
Step 2: Enter registered Mobile Number along with PIN sent on your email then click “Log In”.
Step 3: On successful Log In, from the left side menu bar click on “Departments &amp;amp; Services” tab.
Step 4: Scroll down to “District Industries Centre DD &amp;amp; DNH” and click on the “Click Here” button to apply for “Investment Promotion Scheme : 2022 to 2027 (20 May 2022 to 19 May 2027)”. 
Step 5: “Common Application Form” will be open. Enter all the details in required input fields and upload all the mandatory documents.
Step 6: After successful entry of the information, verify all the details and click on the “Submit” button to complete the application process.
&gt; Helpdesk:

District Industries Centre,
Contact No.: 02602260871 / 02602260310
Email Address: dicdd@nic.in
For Technical Assistance on Single Window Portal (i.e. https://investdd.in)  Contact No. : 02602231885 / 2231886  EMail : ddegsdd@nic.in For more information, please refer to: Guidelines: https://swp.dddgov.in/assets/pdf/Notification_IPS_2022_DNH_DD.pdf FAQs: https://swp.dddgov.in/assets/pdf/FAQs_IPS_2022.pdf Tags associated with the scheme include: Awards, Entrepreneurship, IPS, MSMEs.