The name of this welfare scheme is Divyang Pension Scheme. It is also known as DPSUK. “Divyang  Pension” scheme is a social security scheme by the Social Welfare Department, Government of Uttarakhand. The scheme aims to provide financial assistance to the specially abled people of the state, who do not have any means of livelihood of their own or can not do any kind of hard work to sustain them. The scheme targets beneficiaries such as Individual. It is specifically implemented in Uttarakhand. Additionally, the nodal department is Department Of Social Welfare.

The scheme provides the following benefits: ₹1,500/per month to the beneficiaries.

Eligibility criteria include: The applicant should be a permanent resident of Uttarakhand.
The applicant should be more than eighteen (18) years of age.
The applicant should belong to Person with Disabilities (PWD) category having more than 40% disability.
Applicant’s monthly income should not exceed ₹4,000/.

Or,

Should belong to the BPL (Below Poverty Level ) category. The application process is as follows: Step 1: Visit the Official Website then click on “Online Application” in the Menu Bar.
Step 2: Click on “Submit New Online Application” in the menu item for Online Application.
Step 3: The registration form will be displayed.
Step 4: Select the scheme in the registration form and fill in the required information.
Step 5: After saving the application form, the applicant will receive the password of the applicant login by SMS at the address given by the applicant.
Step 6: Click on the “Applicant Login” under the menu item to apply online using these login IDs and passwords .
Step 7: Once you have successfully logged in , the information on your registered application form will be updated as needed.
Step 8: Upload the documents required for the scheme (as indicated in the required document menu item) by clicking Upload documents menu item (File type: pdf; file size: 1 MB).
Step 9: After uploading all the required documents, the applicant will be able to take a printout of the application form by clicking on the Print Application Form menu item.
Step 10: After uploading all the required documents, the applicant will be able to take a printout of the application form by clicking on the Print Application Form menu item.
&gt;  Track Application:

Step 1: Visit the Official Website on your Mobile or Laptop/ Computer.
Step 2: Enter your Enter application number/ Mobile number/ Aadhaar number
Step 3: Then click on the “Search” button to see the application status.
Note: Once your application is under process or processed, you cannot update.
&gt; Helpdesk:

Toll Free Number: 8004804236
What’s App Mobile Number: 6395221188
Landline Number:
03526742
035267422
0352669764
Email ID:
swditcell@gmail.com
itcellewduik@nic.in For more information, please refer to: Guidelines (Page No. 16): https://agriculture.uk.gov.in/files/MERI_YOJANA_book_pdf__04-12-23.pdf User Manual: https://ssp.uk.gov.in/Documents/ProcessForRegistration.pdf Tags associated with the scheme include: Disability, Divyang, Financial Assistance, Pension.