The name of this welfare scheme is Award of Puducherry State Post-Matric Scholarship Scheme. It is also known as APSPMSS. The &quot;Award of Puducherry State Post-Matric Scholarship Scheme&quot; initiated by the Directorate of School Education, Union Territory of Puducherry, is designed to make sure that no brilliant student is prevented on the grounds of poverty alone from pursuing an academic career. Through this scheme, scholarship is awarded to students studying in 11th and 12th standards and have secured promotion to the next higher class with 60% &amp; 50% of marks in 10th and 11th standards respectively. The scheme targets beneficiaries such as Individual. It is specifically implemented in Puducherry. Additionally, the nodal department is School Education Department, Puducherry.

The scheme provides the following benefits: > Number of Slots

90 scholarships for 11th Standard and 90 scholarships for 12th Standard are awarded every year.
 This number may vary depending on the availability of funds in the budget of the year.
> Rate of Scholarship


Day Scholar: ₹60/month per student (₹600/year/student).
Hosteller: ₹100/month per student (₹1,000/year/student).

 For ten months in an academic year.
> Mode of Disbursement

The amount is disbursed directly into Aadhaarseeded bank account of the applicant through Direct Benefit Transfer (DBT) and Public Financial Management System (PFMS).

Eligibility criteria include: The applicant should be a citizen of India.
The applicant should be a native of the Union Territory of Puducherry by birth or by continuous residence for not less than five years.
The applicant should be studying in 11th or 12th standard.
The applicant should have secured promotion to the next higher class.
The family income of the applicant should not exceed ₹75,000 per annum.
If the applicant is studying in 11th standard, she/he should have secured 60% marks in 10th standard.
If the applicant is studying in 12th standard, she/he should have secured 50% marks in 11th standard.

NOTE: If proposals received more than the required number, the Directorate selects the required number of beneficiaries strictly in the order of merit of marks in per cent starting from the top and also in the order of preference of students from the Government schools, Government Aided schools and then from the Private schools recognized by the Government. The application process is as follows: Step 1: Visit the Official Website of the eDistrict Portal of the Government of Puducherry.
Step 2: At the top right corner of the home page, click &quot;Login&quot;. In the login screen, click &quot;Register a New Membership&quot;.
Step 3: On the Registration Page, fill in all the mandatory fields: Username, Password, Confirm Password, Personal Details (Full Name, First Name, Email Address, Address, Current Address, Gender, Date of Birth, Mobile Number). Agree to the declaration. Fill in the Captcha Code, and click &quot;Signup&quot;.
Step 4: Visit the Official Website of the eDistrict Portal of the Government of Puducherry.
Step 5: At the top right corner of the home page, click &quot;Login&quot;. In the login screen, provide your Username and Password, fill in the Captcha Code, and click &quot;Sign In&quot;.
Step 6: On the next screen, a list of schemes by the Government of Puducherry will be displayed Departmentwise.
Step 7: Click on the scheme you wish to apply for. You will be taken to its online application form.
Step 8: In the application form, fill in all the mandatory fields (marked with a red asterisk) and upload all the mandatory documents (selfattest if required). 
Step 9: Tick the declaration stating &quot;I hereby declare that the abovementioned details are true and correct as per the best of my Knowledge&quot;. Submit the application and note the application number for tracking your application. The application number will also be received on your Registered Mobile Number / Registered Email ID.
Track Your Application here
 Access the User Manual for Online Application here For more information, please refer to: Guidelines: https://schooledn.py.gov.in/Welfare/InnerPages/edu_PostMetricScholarship.html User Manual For Online Application: https://edistrict.py.gov.in/Help.rar Track Your Application: https://edistrict.py.gov.in/User/TrackApplication.aspx Tags associated with the scheme include: DBT, Education, Scholarship, School, Student.