The name of this welfare scheme is Post Graduate Indira Gandhi Scholarship For Single Girl Child. It is also known as PG-IGSSGC. A scholarship scheme by the University Grants Commission for Girl students who are admitted in the first year of PG courses in any designated university or a postgraduate college, and happen to be the only girl child in the family. The amount of fellowship is ₹ 36,200/- p.a. for the full duration of a PG course. The scheme has been introduced with an aim to compensate direct costs of girl education at all levels, especially for such girls who happen to be the only girl child in their families. 


The objectives of the proposed scheme are:
a) To support the postgraduate education of single girl children in postgraduate courses only.
b) To recognize the value of observance of the small family norms. 


The candidates are required to apply online on National Scholarship Portal after initiation of the application process and notice to be published on the UGC website. 3,000 fresh scholarships will be awarded every year and will be paid on DBT mode on annual basis. The scheme targets beneficiaries such as Individual. The implementing agency is University Grants Commission (UGC). Additionally, the nodal ministry is Ministry of Education and the nodal department is Department Of Higher Education.

It falls under the categories: Education & Learning, Women and Child.

Eligibility criteria include: The applicant must be a citizen of India.
The applicant must be the only girl child in the family.
Girl students without having any brothers or the girl student who are twin daughters/ fraternal daughters may also apply
The age of the applicant should not be more than 30 years at the time of admission in the first year of PG
course.
The applicant must have taken admission to regular, fulltime firstyear Master&#39;s Degree courses in any designated university or a postgraduate college. 
The candidate should be pursuing a nonprofessional course and be taking regular classes from a recognized institution.
The applicant must not be [ursuing education through Distance education mode. For more information, please refer to: Guidelines: https://scholarships.gov.in/public/schemeGuidelines/Guidelines_SGC1819.pdf FAQs: https://scholarships.gov.in/public/FAQ/FAQ_SGC1819.pdf Tags associated with the scheme include: Girl Child, Scholarship.