The name of this welfare scheme is Domestic Funding Of Foreign Training. It is also known as DFFT SCHEME. The scheme &amp;quot;Domestic Funding of Foreign Training (DFFT)&amp;quot; is a scheme introduced by the Department of Personnel and Training, Government of India in the year 2001-02 with an objective to upgrade the knowledge &amp;amp; skills of the Government officers as well as to provide exposure to international best practices by deputing them to different long/short‐term training programmes. The Training Division of the Department of Personnel and Training has been implementing the scheme.
              The DFFT Scheme envisages leveraging the officers with exposure to international best practices and developments in the field of policy and governance by nominating the officers to Universities/Institutes abroad and enhancing the knowledge, skills, and competence of the officers in their current areas of employment and also in their future assignments. The scheme targets beneficiaries such as Individual. The implementing agency is Department Of Personnel And Training. Additionally, the nodal ministry is Ministry Of Personnel, Public Grievances And Pensions and the nodal department is Department of Personnel and Training.

The scheme provides the following benefits: Under the scheme, different international training programmes will be offered to eligible government officers as mentioned below:

LongTerm Foreign Training Programmes (612 months)
Short Term Foreign Training Programmes (up to 6 months)
Partial Funding of Foreign Study (of more than 6 months)

Eligibility criteria include: All Indian Administrative Service (IAS) Officers / Group ‘A’ officers belonging to Central Secretariat Service (CSS), Central Secretariat Stenographer Service (CSSS), and State Civil Service (SCS).
   Indian Police Service (IPS), Indian Forest Service (IFoS), and Group ‘A’ Central Civil Service Officers during the tenure of deputation under the Central Staffing Scheme of DoPT. The application process is as follows: Registration Process: All other participating services except IAS have to register on the DFFT portal first.
Step 01: Interested government officers should visit the official website for registering himself/herself under the scheme.
Step 02: Click on “Other Participant Registration” and fill in all the mandatory details. 
Step 03: After filling details, click on ‘Submit’.
Step 04: The officer will receive DFFT Application ID &amp;amp; password via email.
Application Process:
Step 01: The officers, as per their services, select the login option “IAS Registration/Login” or “Other Participant Login”.
Step 02: The officers of other services may use their login credentials for login and IAS officers should login from the DFFT portal using their intraIAS username and password. After submitting the DFFT application form system allots them a Registration ID.
Step 03: Now, the officers require to fill in all the details carefully and submit the application form.
Note 01: Not finalized application will be considered as incomplete registration. Only Finalized application will be forwarded to the concerned officer.
Note 02: Applicants/nominated officers are advised to check their respective emails for any alerts that may be indicated before the last date of application, for revising choices for the programmes as per the final availability list of courses.
Check Application Status:
Step 01: The status of the application can be seen by clicking `Check Application Status’ on the online application portal by using their DFFT Application ID. https://dfft.nic.in/CheckApplicationStatus.aspx


Application ProcessUser Guide For more information, please refer to: Official Website: https://dopt.gov.in/schemes/domestic-funding-foreign-training-dfft DFFT Portal: https://dfft.nic.in/Start1.aspx Application Process-User Guide: https://dfft.nic.in/ManualDFFT.pdf FAQs: https://dopt.gov.in/sites/default/files/Dfft_FAQs.pdf Tags associated with the scheme include: Foreign, Government Officers, International, Training Programme.