The name of this welfare scheme is Anti Bird Net. It is also known as ABN. The Anti-Bird Net Scheme, an initiative by the Agriculture Department of the Rajasthan government, promotes protected cultivation practices among farmers by providing subsidies for installing low-cost plastic tunnels. The subsidy amount may be capped for each farmer, depending on the scheme&#39;s provisions and available funds.
> Important points


1. The work can be started only after the administrative approval/work order is issued by the Horticulture Department.
1. After establishment, verification can be done by the committee formed.
1. The grant amount can be paid directly into the farmer&#39;s bank account or to the producing firm based on the written consent of the farmer. The scheme targets beneficiaries such as Individual. It is specifically implemented in Rajasthan. Additionally, the nodal department is Agriculture Department.

The scheme provides the following benefits: > 50 percent subsidy is payable for a maximum area of 5000 square meters.

Eligibility criteria include: The applicant should be a native of Rajasthan.
The applicant must have ownership of cultivable land, his own fruit orchard, and an irrigation source. The application process is as follows: > Registration

Step1: Applicant have to visit the official portal. 
Step2: Click on the option “Register”.
Step3: Then you will be redirected to the SSO registration page. The registration page will appear with the following options.


  Citizen


Step4: Choose the either one option from  the Jan Aadhaar Or Google to process further.


  Jan Aadhaar : Enter the Jan Aadhaar number, click on the ‘Next’ button,


      Select your name, the name of the head of the family and all the other members and 
      Click on the ‘Send OTP’ button. Enter the ‘OTP’ and 
      Click on the ‘Verify OTP’ button to Complete the registration. 






  Google : Enter the Gmail ID, click on the ‘Next’ button, 


      Enter the password.
      A new link appear on screen, now click on new SSO link.
      SSO id will appear on screen, now create the password.
      Enter Mobile number, click on registration.




Step5: Complete the registration process.


> Apply

Step1: Applicant have to visit the official portal. 
Step2: After login, dashboard will open.
Step3: Click on “ RAJKISAN ” option. 
Step4: In &quot;Citizen&quot;, click on &quot;Application Entry Request&quot;.
Step5: Enter the &quot;Bhamashah ID&quot; or &quot;Janaadhaar ID&quot; and search.  
Step6: Select the person name and scheme name. 
Step7: Complete the Aadhaar Authentication and click on Get details. 
Step8: Provide the required details.
            Pensioner Details.
            Bank Details.
            Disability Details.
            Verification Details.
            Upload Documents.
Step9: Submit. For more information, please refer to: Guidelines: https://rajkisan.rajasthan.gov.in/Rajkisanweb/Kisan Registration: https://sso.rajasthan.gov.in/register Login: https://sso.rajasthan.gov.in/signin Tags associated with the scheme include: Agriculture, Anti Bird Net, Farmer, Farming.