The name of this welfare scheme is Bal Ashrams. It is also known as BA. The &quot;Bal Ashrams&quot; have been established by the Social Welfare Department, Govt. of Jammu and Kashmir, to create a society free from child labor, where all children receive free, compulsory, quality, and meaningful education. Orphans and destitute children are provided free schooling, boarding and lodging, free bedding and clothing, recreational material, and medicines. More than 12 orphanages are established in the private sector in Srinagar. The guardian or the social worker of the eligible boy/girl shall approach the concerned District Social Welfare Officer (DSWO) for submission of the application. This is a 100% State Sponsored Scheme, and only the permanent residents of the state of Jammu &amp; Kashmir can apply for this scheme. The scheme targets beneficiaries such as Individual. It is specifically implemented in Jammu and Kashmir. The implementing agency is District Social Welfare Offices (DSWO) Of The Department Of Social Welfare, Union Territory Of Jammu & Kashmir. Additionally, the nodal department is Department Of Social Welfare J and K.

The scheme provides the following benefits: Free schooling, boarding and lodging, free bedding and clothing, recreational material, and medicines.

Eligibility criteria include: The applicant should be a citizen of India.
The applicant should be a social worker or the guardian of the eligible child.
The child should be an orphan or a destitute.
The child should be a domicile / permanent resident of the state of Jammu &amp; Kashmir.
The child should not already be availing of the benefits of the scheme. The application process is as follows: Step 1: Visit the District Social Welfare Office, and request a hard copy of the format of the application form for the scheme from the concerned authority.
Step 2: In the application form, fill in all the mandatory fields, paste the passportsized photograph (signed across), and attach all the (selfattested) mandatory documents.
Step 3: Submit the duly filled and signed application form along with the documents to the District Social Welfare Officer.
Step 4: Acquire the receipt/acknowledgment of the successful submission of the application form from the District Social Welfare Office.


> PostApplication Processes:

Step 1: On receipt of the application duly completed by the applicant, the DSWO shall consolidate the list and forward it to the District Level Sanctioning Committee.
Step 2: The superintendent shall admit/discharge any inmate with the approval of the District Social Welfare Officer concerned and the Deputy Director of Administration, Directorate of Social Welfare Jammu.


> Check Application Status:

The District Social Welfare Officer (DSWO) can be contacted regarding the application status of the scheme. For more information, please refer to: Guidelines: https://jksabwdobcs.com/pdf/gov_schemes.pdf List Of Social Welfare Centres: https://jksocialwelfare.nic.in/welfareIns/SocialWelfareCenters.pdf Contact Details Of DSWOs / Superitendents: https://jkdswdj.jk.gov.in/whowho/tsoOffice.pdf Tags associated with the scheme include: Destitute, Orphan, Rehabilitation, Security, Shelter.