The name of this welfare scheme is Relief to the Unregistered Workers. It is also known as RTTUW. The &quot;Relief to the Unregistered Workers&quot; scheme was launched by the Telangana Building &amp; Other Construction Workers Welfare Board, LET&amp;F (Labour) Department Telangana. The scheme aims to provide financial assistance to the dependents of unregistered building and construction workers who die in accidents at construction sites and also offers compensation for unregistered workers who suffer permanent disabilities due to accidents. This initiative supports the welfare of construction workers and their families, even if the workers were not registered at the time of the incident. The scheme targets beneficiaries such as Individual. It is specifically implemented in Telangana. Additionally, the nodal department is Labour, Employment Training and Factories Department.

The scheme provides the following benefits: > Compensation for Deceased Workers: 


Financial Assistance of ₹50,000/to the dependents of unregistered workers who die in accidents at construction sites or related projects.



> Relief for Permanent Disabilities:


₹20,000/is provided for cases of permanent disability where the disability is 50% or above.
₹10,000/is provided for cases of permanent partial disability where the disability is below 50%.

Eligibility criteria include: > Eligibility for Accidental Death of Unregistered Worker:


The applicant should be dependent on the deceased unregistered worker. 
The worker must be unregistered with the Andhra Pradesh Building and Other Construction Workers Welfare Board.
The worker must have died in an accident at a construction site or related project during the course of employment.



> Eligibility for Permanent Disability: 


The worker should have a permanent disability due to accidents at construction sites.
The worker should have a disability of 50% or above.

> Eligibility for Permanent Partial Disability: 


The worker should have a permanent partial disability due to accidents at construction sites.The worker should have a disability of 50% or below. The application process is as follows: Step1: The interested applicant visits the official website and clicks on &quot;Downloads&quot; at the top of menu options.
Step2: Now click on the download button corresponding to the scheme name.
Step3: In the application form, fill in all the mandatory fields, and attach copies of all the mandatory documents (selfattest, if required).
Step4: Submit the duly filled and signed application form along with the documents to the concerned officer in the labour department. 
Step5: Request a receipt or acknowledgment from the concerned authority to whom the application has been submitted. Ensure that the receipt contains essential details such as the date and time of submission, and a unique identification number (if applicable). For more information, please refer to: Guidelines: https://tbocwwb.telangana.gov.in/newsite/pdf_files/2011LETF_MS63.pdf List Of Schemes: https://tbocwwb.telangana.gov.in/new_gos.html Tags associated with the scheme include: Disabilitiy, Disease, Financial Assistance, Unregistered Worker.