The name of this welfare scheme is Post Matric Scholarship Students With Disabilities. It is also known as POST-DIS. A scholarship scheme by DoEPwD for students with disabilities pursuing a post-matric qualification from UGC/AICTE recognized universities, i.e. students of Class 11th, Class 12th, including Polytechnics, Post-Matriculation Diploma/Certificates and Bachelor’s Degree/Diploma in India and Master’s Degree/Diploma.


The students with the specified disabilities defined in Schedule of the &quot;Rights of Persons with Disabilities Act, 2016&quot; will be eligible under this scheme. This includes persons with visual, hearing, speech, loco-motor, mental retardation, and other disabilities. NOS is implemented offline by the DEPwD.


At times SwDs are deprived of harnessing their latent skills and thereby miss the opportunity. This scheme aims to support SwDs to study further in order to prepare themselves to earn their livelihood and to find a dignified place for themselves in the society as they face several barriers physical, financial, psychological, mental in pursuing studies and living with dignity. The scheme targets beneficiaries such as Individual. The implementing agency is National Scholarship Portal (NSP). Additionally, the nodal ministry is Ministry Of Social Justice and Empowerment and the nodal department is Department Of Empowerment Of Persons With Disabilities.

It falls under the categories: Education & Learning, Social welfare & Empowerment.

Eligibility criteria include: The applicant must be a student.
The applicant must be pursuing a postmatric qualification, i.e. Class 11th, Class 12th, including Polytechnics, PostMatriculation Diploma/Certificates and Bachelor’s Degree/Diploma in India and Master’s Degree/Diploma.
The applicant must be disabled, with disability percentage of 40% or above.
The Total Annual income of parents/guardians of the applicant (from all sources) must not exceed ₹ 50 Lakh per Annum.
The applicant must not be availing any other scholarship by the govt.
The applicant must not be the third sibling of the family who has been given this scholarship. For more information, please refer to: Guidelines: http://disabilityaffairs.gov.in/upload/uploadfiles/files/scholarship2(1).pdf Tags associated with the scheme include: Degree, Diploma, Graduation, Persons With Disability, Post-Graduation, Post-Matric, Scholarship, Student.