The name of this welfare scheme is Zero Ticket Bus Travel Scheme for Women. It is also known as ZTBTSFW. The Zero Ticket Bus Travel Scheme. The government of Tamil Nadu under the Department of Social Welfare and Women Empowerment announced a scheme whereby women travelers can travel without paying any fare in government-run normal-fare buses (for short distances of up to 30 kilometers) in cities and towns in the state. Women are issued zero tickets (a fareless ticket) when they travel in these buses.


 Among the women passengers who use the Zero-Ticket Travel Scheme (ZTBT), around 52% of them are below the age of 40. The fact that more than 48% of women users are more than 40 years of age indicates the extent to which this scheme benefits older women. There are no major differences in these proportions across districts.
ZTBT Scheme users are those with educational qualifications of less than fifth grade (5 years of school education). They comprise almost 44% of the sample users The scheme targets beneficiaries such as Individual. It is specifically implemented in Tamil Nadu. The implementing agency is Tamil Nadu Corporation For Development Of Women.. Additionally, the nodal department is Department of Social Welfare and Women Empowerment.

The scheme provides the following benefits: Free bus travel in Tamil Nadu government buses. 
No Need to Pay any Fare up to 30 Kilometers.

Eligibility criteria include: Only women will be eligible.
Women should be permanent Residents of Tamil Nadu.
There is a travel limit of 30kilometers. The application process is as follows: > No formal application is needed. Women simply board the bus and request a zerovalue ticket from the conductor. For more information, please refer to: Guidelines: https://spc.tn.gov.in/IPT_studies/ZTBTphase2.pdf Website: https://www.tnsocialwelfare.tn.gov.in/en/specilisationswomen-welfare/free-travel-for-women-in-government-buses Tags associated with the scheme include: Bus, Empowerment, Transport, Women, Zero Ticket.