The name of this welfare scheme is Women Scientist Scheme-A. It is also known as WOS-A. A Research Grant by MoST for female candidates to pursue research in frontier areas of science and engineering, preferably those having a break in career (minimum two years) and not having regular employment, to explore possibility of re-entry into the profession.


This scheme will provide a research grant for a well-defined project proposal for a period of maximum three years. This grant will cover the fellowship of the applicant and cost of small equipments, contingencies, travel, consumables, etc. Institutional overhead charges will be extra.


The support is available in 5 disciplines under WOS-A namely, i) Physical &amp; Mathematical Sciences (PMS), ii) Chemical Sciences (CS), iii) Life Sciences (LS), iv) Earth &amp; Atmospheric Sciences (EAS), and v) Engineering Technology (ET).


The scheme plays pivotal role in gender mainstreaming as it not only prevents brain drain from S&amp;T system but also train and retain women in the system. The scheme initially offers opportunity to work as bench-level scientists and ultimately open new avenues for permanent position in Science &amp; Technology. The scheme targets beneficiaries such as Individual. Additionally, the nodal ministry is Ministry Of Science And Technology.

It falls under the categories: Education & Learning, Skills & Employment, Social welfare & Empowerment, Science, IT & Communications, Women and Child.

Eligibility criteria include: The applicant must be a FEMALE.
The applicant must either be unemployed or in a position other than regular/permanent position.The age of the applicant must be between 27 and 57 years (5 year relaxation for SC/ST/OBC and physically challenged candidates)The applicant must hold either of the following Minimum essential qualification Minimum Post Graduate degree, equivalent to M.Sc. in Basic or Applied Sciences or B.Tech. or MBBS or other equivalent professional qualifications.
M.Phil/M.Tech/M.Pharm/M.VSc or equivalent qualifications.
Ph.D. in Basic or Applied Sciences. For more information, please refer to: Guidelines: https://dst.gov.in/scientific-programmes/scientific-engineering-research/women-scientists-programs Tags associated with the scheme include: Education, Empowerment, Fellowship, Science, Scientist, Technology, Unemployed, Women.