The name of this welfare scheme is Agriculture Information Unit Scheme. It is also known as AIUS. The “Agriculture Information Unit Scheme” is a State Plan Scheme, which is implemented by the Department of Agriculture &amp;amp; Farmers’ Welfare, Government of Meghalaya. The objective of the scheme is to provide free distribution of information leaflets, booklets, etc. Sponsoring farmers&amp;#39; groups, and self-help groups to participate in and/ or organize trade fairs, expos, and exhibitions within and outside the state. The scheme targets beneficiaries such as Individual. It is specifically implemented in Meghalaya. The implementing agency is Department Of Agriculture & Farmers’ Welfare, Government Of Meghalaya. Additionally, the nodal department is Agriculture Department.

The scheme provides the following benefits: > Pattern of Assistance:


  Free distribution of information leaflets, package of practices, booklets etc., including sponsoring Farmers Group, SHG to exposure programmes like trade fairs, expos, exhibitions in and outside the State.

&gt; Type of Assistance and Entitlement (If any):


  Farmers Exposure Trip, Holding Crop Competition, Printing of booklets, leaflets, farmer calendar, publications, observation of World Food Day, Sponsoring farmers to participate in Trade Fair, Exhibition, Kisan Mela.

Eligibility criteria include: The applicant should be a resident of Meghalaya.
The applicant should be a bonafide farmer engaged in agriculture. The application process is as follows: &gt; Application Process:

To avail the benefits of the scheme, the bonafide farmers can approach the nearest Agriculture Development Officer of a CD Block/Agriculture Circle.
&gt; Mode of Selection of Beneficiary(s):

Does not arise. All farmers can avail of publication materials on a first come first serve basis.
&gt; Whom to Contact:


   Agriculture Information Officer, Directorate of Agriculture.
   District Agriculture Officers of the concerned districts.
   Subdivisional Officers of the concerned subdivisions.
   Agriculture Development Officers of the concerned Community and Rural Development Blocks. For more information, please refer to: Official Website: https://megagriculture.gov.in/PUBLIC/schemes_ShowSchemesA.aspx?schid=44 FAQs: https://megagriculture.gov.in/PUBLIC/dwd_docs/FAQONAGRICULTURESCHEMES.pdf Tags associated with the scheme include: Agriculture, Booklets, Farmer, Information Unit, Leaflets.