The name of this welfare scheme is Student Internship Programme. It is also known as SIP-CAG. The Student Internship Program, a unique learning opportunity aims to provide the Interns exposure to the functioning of the CAG of India. The office of the Comptroller and Auditor General of India (CAG) invites applications for engaging Student Interns (SIs) on contract basis for a duration of 3 to 6 months to
work in the Regional Capacity Building and Knowledge Institutes. Candidates pursuing under graduation/ post-graduation / research in any discipline from recognized, reputed institutions, with stellar academic record are eligible to apply. Preferred attributes include skills in Information Technology (IT) &amp;amp; Information
Communication Technology (ICT) with good communication and interpersonal skills. The Student Intern (SI) shall be subject to the laws of secrecy of the country and will sign a Secrecy and Non-Disclosure Agreement before reporting for the internship. Interns will have to present to the concerned Head of the Functional Wing/Head of the Field office a Report/Paper on the assigned subject at the end of the internship. The Head of the Functional Wing at CAG office/Head of Field Office will review the progress of the projects on a regular basis. At the end of the internship, an Experience Certificate / Recommendatory letter shall be given.
&gt; Number of Interns

The number of Student Interns to be engaged by the CAG of India shall depend on the actual requirement from time to time. 
&gt; Duration

The duration of internship for a Student Intern shall be 3 to 6 months.
&gt; Place of Posting

The place of posting will be the CAG’s office, New Delhi or any of CAG’s field office across India. 
&gt; Travel, Service Incurred Death, Injury or Illness, Allowances


   1. No TA/DA will be paid to the SI to attend the interviews.
   1. No other perks and facilities such as DA, accommodation, residential phone/conveyance/transport, foreign travel, personal staff, medical reimbursement, CGHS etc. shall be admissible,
   1. In the event of death, injury or illness of the SI during the term of his/her internship the SI or the SI’s dependents, legal heirs, claimant etc., shall not be entitled to any compensation. The scheme targets beneficiaries such as Individual. Additionally, the nodal ministry is Comptroller And Auditor General Of India.

The scheme provides the following benefits: &gt; Remuneration

Token remuneration is ₹12,000/(all inclusive) per month, per intern which will be paid on satisfactory completion of their internship and on submission of their Report/Paper.
&gt; Logistics support

Interns will be provided with the necessary logistics support, i.e. office space and computer with internet facility.
&gt; Outplacement

At the end of the internship, an Experience Certificate / Recommendatory letter shall be given.

Eligibility criteria include: &gt; Minimum Attributes


   The applicant should not be more than 25 years of age.
   Candidates pursuing under graduation/ postgraduation / research in any discipline from recognized, reputed institutions, with stellar academic record are eligible to apply.

&gt; Preferred Attributes

It includes skills in Information Technology (IT) &amp;amp; Information Communication Technology (ICT) with good communication and interpersonal skills.
&gt; Other Attributes


   The Student Intern (SI) shall be subject to the laws of secrecy of the country and will sign a Secrecy and NonDisclosure Agreement before reporting for the internship.
   The working hours of the SI shall be same as regular timing of this office. The SI shall not be entitled to any kind of leave.
   No extra remuneration shall be allowed for working beyond office hours or on Saturdays/Sundays/Gazetted Holidays. The application process is as follows: After reading the instructions carefully, the applicant may visit the link: https://docs.google.com/forms/d/e/1FAIpQLSc2YalGsTbVeQcpxPotewRiqrViGZQKWg40DWhPQmDqBQ/viewform to apply for this programme.   Fill in all the details of the form and submit.
   It is also requested that all the candidates may visit the official website of CAG for obtaining latest updates regarding this programme. For more information, please refer to: Guidelines: https://cag.gov.in/uploads/student_internship_programme/student-internship-programme-065ddbcd9173a62-33560969.pdf Tags associated with the scheme include: Information Technology, Internship, Student.