The name of this welfare scheme is Temporary Disability (Hospitalization) Relief Scheme. It is also known as TDHRS. The &quot;Temporary Disability (Hospitalization) Relief Scheme&quot; welfare scheme by the Andhra Pradesh Building and Other Construction Workers Welfare Board offers financial assistance to registered construction workers who face temporary disability due to accidents or diseases. The scheme aims to help workers and their families manage the financial impact of temporary disability by offering timely relief. The scheme targets beneficiaries such as Individual. It is specifically implemented in Andhra Pradesh. Additionally, the nodal department is Labour Department.

The scheme provides the following benefits: Financial Assistance of ₹3,000/per month.

Eligibility criteria include: The construction worker should be registered under the Andhra Pradesh Building and Other Construction Workers Welfare Board. 
The worker should have a temporary disability due to an accident/disease. The application process is as follows: Step1: The interested applicant should visit (during office hours) the A.P. Building &amp; Other Construction Workers Welfare Board and request a hard copy of the prescribed format of the application form from the staff exclusively entrusted to issue and collect filledin applications.
Step2: In the application form, fill in all the mandatory fields, and attach copies of all the mandatory documents (selfattest, if required).
Step3: Submit the duly filled and signed application form along with the documents to the Assistant Labour Officer/Assistant Commissioner of Labour.
Step4: Request a receipt or acknowledgement from the Assistant Labour Officer/Assistant Commissioner of Labour to whom the application has been submitted. Ensure that the receipt contains essential details such as the date and time of submission, and a unique identification number (if applicable). For more information, please refer to: Guidelines: https://apbocwwb.ap.nic.in/APBOCWW3/G.O.4,Hospitalization.pdf Official Website: https://apbocwwb.ap.nic.in/apbocwwbhome.jsp Tags associated with the scheme include: Construction Worker, Financial Assistance, Temporary Disability.