The name of this welfare scheme is Award of Adhoc Merit Grant (Special Incentive) to Scheduled Caste Students. It is also known as AAMG(SI)SCS. The scheme “Award of Adhoc Merit Grant (Special Incentive) to Scheduled Caste Students” was implemented by the Adi Dravidar Welfare Department, Government of Puducherry. The scheme is implemented as a sort of encouragement for the Scheduled Caste students who secure 65% or above marks in matriculation/SSLC Board of Examinations. The incentive is given with a view to enable the Scheduled Caste students who intend to pursue their Post-metric studies, to meet the initial expenditure at the time of admission. The scheme targets beneficiaries such as Individual. It is specifically implemented in Puducherry. The implementing agency is Adi Dravidar Welfare Department, Union Territory Of Puducherry. Additionally, the nodal department is Adi Dravidar Welfare Department, Puducherry.

The scheme provides the following benefits: Under this scheme, a onetime cash award of ₹1,000/will be given to the Scheduled Caste students who secure 65% or above marks in matriculation/SSLC Board of Examinations.

Eligibility criteria include: All the students belonging to the Scheduled Caste who secured 65% and above marks in the 10th Standard/Matriculation/SSLC Board of Examination shall be eligible for the award.
   The student should be a permanent resident of the Union Territory of Puducherry by virtue of birth or continuous residence in the Union Territory of Puducherry for not less than five years.
   The student should pursue his/her higher studies in a recognized university/college/institution.
   The grant will be given irrespective of the income limit of the parent/guardian of the students and the age of the students. The application process is as follows: Step 01: The students applying for the scholarship for the first time need to &amp;quot;Register&amp;quot; using the icon “New Registration” at the NSP Portal URL https://scholarships.gov.in/, by providing accurate and correct information as per their documents.
Step 02: After successfully get registration done, students will get their “Student Registration ID”.
Step 03: Through “Student Registration ID” students will be able to login into the account using the icon “Fresh Application” at NSP Portal.
Step 04: After successful login to the portal, the welcome page appeared. On clicking the “Application Form” icon, students will be directed to the application screen.
Step 05: Now, the students may fill out the complete application form and on clicking the “Final Submit” button, the application is finally submitted.
Step 06: On successful submission of the application, a systemgenerated registration number is sent to the students which can be used for future reference. For more information, please refer to: Official Website: https://adwelfare.py.gov.in/award-adhoc-merit-grant-special-incentive-sc-students Scheme Guideline: https://scholarships.gov.in/public/schemeGuidelines/Puducherry/Pudu_3018_G.pdf National Scholarship Portal: https://scholarships.gov.in/ Tags associated with the scheme include: Cash Award, Merit Grant, Scheduled Caste, Student.