The name of this welfare scheme is AICTE- Technical University Joint Training Programs for Librarians. It is also known as ATUJTFL. AICTE- Technical University Joint Training Programs for Librarians, launched by the All India Council for Technical Education, aims to provide financial assistance in conducting training for Librarians to prepare them for being successful and effective in a knowledge society.
Objectives:
The objectives of the  program are;

  - To provide a dynamic and quality user centered library and information services that enhance teaching, learning and research while inculcating life-long learning skills and fostering human development.
  - To bring high quality, scholarly information resources and services to the University through Library.

Duration/Type/Participants:
The AICTE – technical university will be of five days residential training program with minimum 25-30 participants.
Number of Programs:
The university shall conduct one such training program in a financial year.
Training on moral values:
Minimum one session of 3 hours in the program for Librarians may be kept for training related to Moral Values, Ethics, Behavioral Sciences &amp;amp; Attitude etc.
Infrastructure:
Being a residential program, the university shall have requisite infrastructure viz. guest house and dining hall etc.
Role and responsibilities of technical university:

  - The university shall conduct the joint training program for Librarians strictly in accordance with the provisions of the scheme document.
  - The university will do the certification of these programs jointly with AICTE. It shall be ensured by the university that the certificates shall be issued only to those participants, who qualify the test to be necessarily conducted at the end.
  - The university will act as the facilitator for the operation of the training program.
  - The university will be accountable for finance/ grants sanctioned under the scheme and shall abide by the terms and conditions stipulated by AICTE for financial grants.
  - The university will constitute a Project Monitoring committee for effective implementation of the scheme. AICTE will provide its representative as a member on that committee.
  - The university shall submit, yearly report, detailed statement of expenditure and Utilization Certificate, in the prescribed format for sanctioned grants, within a month after the end of each financial year duly audited by a certified Chartered Accountant firm. The accounts shall be open to inspection by the officials of AICTE and an audit by the Statutory Auditors.
  - After conduct of each of the training program, the documents shall be submitted by the university to AICTE. The scheme targets beneficiaries such as University / Institution. Additionally, the nodal ministry is Ministry of Education.

The scheme provides the following benefits: The maximum total expenditure for conduct of one training program will be ₹ 3,00,000/(or the actual amount expended) to be shared 50:50 by AICTE and Technical university.

AICTE: Will release a grant of ₹ 1,50,000/to Technical university for the training program to meet the expenditure or the actual expenditure, whichever is less on (i) TA/DA/ Honorarium to Resource Persons (Honorarium not to exceed 20% of the total expenditure incurred on conduct of one such training program), (ii) TA to outstation participants and (iii) Course material to participants.Technical university: Will meet from its own funds, the expenditure to the extent of ₹ 1,50,000/or the actual expenditure, whichever is less, to cover all items of expenditure such as (i) Boarding &amp; lodging of participants, (ii) Honorarium to Program Coordinator (not to exceed 1% of the total expenditure incurred on one such training program) and (iii) Working expenses (tea/coffee/stationary/certificate/printing etc.).

Eligibility criteria include: AICTE approved institutions. The application process is as follows: Registration of New Institute:
Step 01: Visit http://portal.aicteindia.org/partnerportalenu/start.swe and click on &#39;New Institute&#39; button.
Step 02: Users will be redirected to another website. Hover the cursor on Login and select ‘Investor Login’.
Step 03: New users need to click on ‘Sign Up Now’ to register.
Step 04: Enter the details and click on ‘Verify’ to receive OTP on your Email Id and Mobile Number.
Step 05: After successful verification Click on ‘Sign Up Now’ to register.


PostRegistration Process:
Step 01: Visit http://portal.aicteindia.org/partnerportalenu/start.swe and log in with the credentials provided by AICTE.
Step 02: Navigate to AQIS Application Screen by clicking on ‘AQIS Application’ screen tab.
Step 03: Institute details will auto populate in the AQIS Application.
Step 04: Fill demographic and Bank details .
Step 05: Only after confirming the Bank Details, the “New” button will be enabled for adding the AQIS Application. Click on “New” button to create AQIS Application.
Step 06: A unique AQIS Application ID will get created. Select &quot;AICTETECHNICAL UNIVERSITY JOINT TRAINING PROGRAMS FOR LIBRARIANS&quot; as Scheme from the drop down List.
Step 07: Now details to be filled for the as followed: Program Details, Personalities Expected, Participating Industries ,Similar Events, Budget Estimate Others, Academic Credentials of Coordinator/ PI/ Applicant, Justification, Credential of Institute / Department.
Step 07: Once the user has filled all the data in the above mentioned tab, user should click on ‘Validate Application’ button on the ‘AQIS Application’ tab.
Step 08: User will get a pop up message to attach a Mandate Form  after downloading the sample form.
Step 09: Now fill the amount in the ‘Total Funds Requested’ under label ‘Budget Estimates Others’.
Step 10: After Validation is completed successfully, read the declaration, check it and click on Save.
Step 10: Click on “Submit” button to submit the application. For more information, please refer to: Guidelines: https://www.aicte-india.org/sites/default/files/fds/Scheme%20Document%20Librarians.pdf Application Form: https://aicte-india.org/sites/default/files/fds/Application_Form.pdf Tags associated with the scheme include: Librarians, Technical University, Training.