The name of this welfare scheme is Chief Minister Agriculture and Food Processing Scheme. It is also known as CHIEF MINISTER AGRICULTURE AND FOOD PROCESSING SCHEME. Chief Minister Agriculture and Food Processing Scheme is being implemented in the state since 2017-18 which  has been extended for the next five years till the year 2026-27 as per the government resolution dated 17 May 2022.  The main objectives of the scheme are to encourage model technology based projects and quality enhancement of agriculture produce, to encourage exports, to create skill manpower for agro and food processing and employment generation through small and medium agro and food processing units in rural areas.


Objectives-
1.	To promote value addition of agriculture produce through farmer involvement by set up of projects based on modern technology. 
2.	Encourage modernization of the project to save energy, to increase the quality of produced food products.
3.	To create the products promotion of processed food, market development and export promotion.  
4.	Generation of trained manpower for agriculture and food processing.
5.	By giving priority to set up small and medium food processing industries in rural areas which made available employment opportunities. The scheme targets beneficiaries such as Business Entity, University / Institution, Registered Societies. It is specifically implemented in Maharashtra. The implementing agency is Commissionerate Of Agriculture, Maharashtra State, Pune. Additionally, the nodal department is Agriculture Department.

The scheme provides the following benefits: Elements of the Scheme Under this scheme, three components are included as follows.
Component No.1 – Establishment of agriculture and food processing units, their upgradation and modernization.
Component No. 2 The cold chain. 
To establish food processing projects related to preprocessing centre and integrated cold chain. 




Financial Assistance:
i.	30% subsidy for construction of factories and machines of Processing Unit (Civil work for housing processing unit) and maximum limit of Rs.00 lakhs.
ii.	Subsidy will be given on the basis of “Credit Linked Back ended subsidy”  in two similar instalments,  a) After completion of the project and b) After full commercial production.
iii.	Loan amount should one and half times more than subsidy.

Eligibility criteria include: The beneficiary should have age above 18 years
The beneficiary should have Aadhaar Card/ Pan Card .
The beneficiary should have Good Bank CIBIL  Score
The beneficiary have 7/12 certificate and 8 –A certificate or Lease documents The application process is as follows: Applicant (Entrepreneur)
Proposal submitted with bank loan approval to District Superintendent Agriculture Officer
Preproject feasibility study through the Deputy Director of Agriculture, District Superintendent Agriculture Office/Subdivisional agricultural Officer and with the recommendation of the District Project Implementation Committee
Major Document Verification for Grant PaymentCA Certificate, Original Bank Loan Sanction, Original Bank Appraisal, CE Civil &amp; Mechanical, Bank Reserve fund Acc. Details, recommendation of District level Project Implementation Committee and strategic inspection report etc.
Inprinciple approval of eligible projects in Commissionerate level Project Approval Committee meeting
As per the recommendation of the District level Project Implementation Committee, after the completion of the project construction, the first phase and the second phase, when the project is in full production capacity, the subsidy will be deposited in the reserve fund account of the bank. For more information, please refer to: Chief Minister Agriculture And Food Processing Scheme GR: https://gr.maharashtra.gov.in/Site/Upload/Government%20Resolutions/English/201706201604136901.pdf