The name of this welfare scheme is Nirman Shramik Pension Yojana (NSPY) (O.B.O.C.W.W.B). It is also known as NSPYBOCWWB. The “Nirman Shramik Pension Yojana (NSPY)” scheme by the Building and Other Construction Workers Welfare Board, Labour Department, Odisha, is a social welfare scheme for the registered workers of the board. Under this scheme, the Board shall provide pension to a Construction worker registered with the Board and is above 60 years old (OAP)/ widow (any age) (WP)/ widow of registered worker (any age)/ leprosy patient with deformity (CLP)/ physically challenged (any age) (DP)/ widow of HIV positive worker (WP-AIDS) or HIV positive worker (any age) (DP-AIDS). The scheme targets beneficiaries such as Individual. It is specifically implemented in Odisha. Additionally, the nodal department is Labour and Employees State Insurance Department.

The scheme provides the following benefits: Beneficiary (up to 80 years): ₹500/Per Month.Beneficiary (80 years and above): ₹700/Per Month.

Eligibility criteria include: &gt; For Registration as a Building/ Construction Worker:


  The applicant should be a resident of Odisha.
  The applicant should be a Building/ Construction Worker.
  The applicant should be between 18 and 60 years.
  The applicant should have engaged in building and construction work for at least 90 days in a given year.
  The applicant should not be a member of any other Welfare Fund established under any law.

&gt; For the Application of the Welfare Scheme:


  The applicant should be any of the following:


   a construction worker and validly registered with the Odisha Building and Other Construction Workers’ Welfare Board and has completed 60 years of age (Old Age PensionOAP).
   a registered construction worker who is a widow (irrespective of age) (Widow PensionWP)
   a widow of a registered construction worker (irrespective of age).
   a registered construction worker who is a leprosy patient with visible signs of deformity (CLP) as per rule.
   a registered construction worker who is physically challenged (irrespective of age) (Disability PensionDP). 
   a Widow of a registered construction worker who was a HIVpositive person (WPAIDS).
   a registered construction worker who is an HIVpositive person identified by the Orissa State AIDS Control Society or District AIDS Prevention Control Unit (D.A.P.C.U.) irrespective of age and income (DPAIDS).


  The applicant’s family income from all sources not exceeding ₹24,000/per annum.
  The applicant has not been convicted of any criminal offense involving moral turpitude.
  The applicant is not in receipt of any other pension from the union Government or the state government or any organization aided by either Government.

&gt; Note: Where both husband and wife are covered under the above definition, each of them will be eligible for such pension. The application process is as follows: &gt; Registration Process as a Building/ Construction Worker:

Step 1: Visit the official website of the Odisha BOCWW Board.
Step 2: Click on “One Time Registration” on the top right side of the page.
Step 3: Click on the Declaration box and then on the “Proceed” button.
Step 4: In the next window fill in all the required details carefully and click on “Proceed”.
Step 5: Enter the received OTP and click on “Submit”.
Step 6: Your account will be successfully created and a Username will be displayed (Keep the Username for future references).
&gt; Application Process of the Welfare Scheme:

Step 1: Visit the Applicant Login page of the Odisha BOCWW Board.
Step 2: Enter your Username, OTP and fill in the captcha then click on “Sign In”.
Step 3: In the next window, fill in your General Details, Address Details, Family &amp;amp; Nominee Details, Details of the establishment(s) where the applicant worked during the last one year, Bank Details etc. and then click on “Submit”.
Step 4: Now in the Menu bar section, click on “Benefit”. From the list select the concerned benefit you want to apply.
Step 5: Fill in all the mandatory details carefully and click on “Submit” to complete the application process.
&gt; Check Your Application Status: Registered workers can check their application status through visiting this link upon entering their Application Tracking Number.

&gt; Pay Annual Contribution: Registered workers can pay the Annual Contribution through visiting this link upon entering their Registration Number. &gt; Registration Process as a Building/ Construction Worker:

Step 1: To register as a beneficiary under the BOCW Welfare Board, an applicant worker should download FormXXVII and attach all the mandatory documents (selfattested, if required).
Step 2: Application shall be submitted to the District Labour Officers (D.L.O)/ Asst. Labour Officers/ Rural Labour Inspectors of your area.
&gt; Application Process of the Welfare Scheme:

Step 1: A registered worker should request the application form from the Office of the District Labour Officers (D.L.O)/ Asst. Labour Officers/ Rural Labour Inspectors of his/ her area and attach all the mandatory documents (self attested, if required).
Step 2: Application shall be submitted to the District Labour Officers (D.L.O)/ Asst. Labour Officers/ Rural Labour Inspectors of your area. For more information, please refer to: Guidelines: https://labdirodisha.gov.in/?q=node/15%27%3B Guidelines: https://bocboard.labdirodisha.gov.in/Building/homecontent/NSPY/NSPY_11-01-18_292.pdf Amendments: https://bocboard.labdirodisha.gov.in/Building/homecontent/NSPY/NSPY_pensionbenefit.pdf Tags associated with the scheme include: Building Worker, Construction Worker, Labour, Nirman Shramik, Pension, Widow.