The name of this welfare scheme is Incentive Scheme for MSMEs in Powerloom Sector: Subsidy for State Goods and Services Tax (SGST). It is also known as ISMPSSSGST. The scheme “Subsidy for State Goods and Services Tax (SGST)” is a sub scheme under the “Incentive Scheme for MSMEs in Powerloom Sector”. It was launched on 1st January, 2022, by the Department of Micro, Small &amp;amp; Medium Enterprises and Textiles, Government of West Bengal, and shall remain valid upto 31st December, 2024.
&gt; Objective of the &amp;quot;Incentive Scheme for MSMEs in Powerloom Sector”:

The objective of the Scheme is to extend fiscal incentives for installation of New age shuttleless Powerlooms by MSMEs in Textile sector with a view to boost production of the improved quality fabrics and to create a sustainable ecosystem for MSMEs in Textile sector which can maximize the utilization of resource, generate new employment and widen the area of operation to make the State emerge as the leader in Powerloom sector in country.
&gt; Objective of the &amp;quot;Subsidy for State Goods and Services Tax (SGST)&amp;quot; Sub-scheme:

Through this incentive, an eligible micro, small and medium enterprise in the Powerloom sector for its approved project will be entitled to refund of Net SGST paid to the Government of West Bengal for 8 years from the date of commencement of commercial production. The scheme targets beneficiaries such as Business Entity, Industries, Joint Liability Groups (JLGS), NGO, Registered Societies, Government Organisation, Self Help Groups (SHGS), Trust. It is specifically implemented in West Bengal. Additionally, the nodal department is Micro, Small & Medium Enterprises and Textiles Department.

The scheme provides the following benefits: Zone B &amp; C: 30% of Net SGST paid for 8 years from the date of commencement of commercial production. 
Zone D &amp; E: 50% of Net SGST paid for 8 years from the date of commencement of commercial production.
> Note: Cumulative refund of SGST shall not exceed 75% of Fixed Capital Investment.

Eligibility criteria include: The Scheme shall be generally applicable to all micro, small, and medium enterprises (MSMEs) in the powerloom sector.
  Enterprises must have started production from 2022 to Enterprises should have executed a Fourparty agreement with the Directorate of Textiles, Financial institution and Tantuja.
  The units should be a private sector, cooperative sector and joint sector undertaking as also companies/ undertakings owned and managed by the State Government and the Industrial SHGs.
  The project should be covered by a detailed feasibility report/project prepared for the purpose.
  The project should have been approved and sanctioned by a Central Financial Institution or Commercial Banks or State Financial Institutions. The application process is as follows: An eligible enterprise shall apply in prescribed format in FORME to the Commissioner of Commercial Taxes, West Bengal at the close of each year requesting him to certify the total amount of SGST paid (excluding input credit) by it in respect of goods manufactured and sold during the year in respect of which the application has been made.
&gt; Time frame for submission of first Application: 

Within 12 months from the date of commencement of commercial production (2022 to 2024).
&gt; Address:

THE COMMISSIONER, COMMERCIAL TAXES, DIRECTORATE OF COMMERCIAL TAXES 14, BELIAGHATA ROAD, KOLKATA700015 Tags associated with the scheme include: Entrepreneurship, GST, Powerloom, Reimbursement, SGST, State Goods And Services Tax, Subsidy, Waiver.