The name of this welfare scheme is Garima Greh Shelter Homes For Transgender Persons. It is also known as SMILE. Garima Greh aims to provide shelter to Destitute &amp; abandoned Transgender persons with basic amenities like shelter, food, medical care and recreational facilities.


Broader objectives of the schemes are:

- To provide shelter with basic amenities such as food, clothing, recreation, medical facilities and counseling
- To safeguard the rights of Transgender persons
- To confirm the prevalence of congenial atmosphere in the Garima Greh by adopting uniform rules and regulations suitable to be followed by all Transgender persons
- To empower a TG person through skill-development and skill up-gradation programmes to lead a decent and dignified life, and protect them from atrocities and social stigma The scheme targets beneficiaries such as Individual. Additionally, the nodal ministry is Ministry Of Social Justice and Empowerment.

It falls under the categories: Social welfare & Empowerment, Housing & Shelter.

Eligibility criteria include: Following are the eligibility criteria of Transgender Person as a resident of Garima
Greh:

Transgenders certified issued through National Portal for Transgender Persons and preferably living below the poverty line. Persons having such certificate from elsewhere, may be persuaded to register on the National Portal.
Transgenders who are abandoned, aged above 18 years and below 60 years
Transgenders should not be engaged in sex work and beggary
Transgenders must be unemployed and not engaged in productive commercial activities



The person needs to register by feeling the admission form (Annexure 2) and the personal affidavit as per the prescribed form Annexure 3 provided in guidelines document. For more information, please refer to: Scheme Guidelines: https://transgender.dosje.gov.in/docs/GarimaGrehGuidleines.pdf  Garima Greh Details: https://transgender.dosje.gov.in/Applicant/Registration/ListofNGO Tags associated with the scheme include: Accomodation, Rehabilitation, Shelter Home, Transgender.