The name of this welfare scheme is Financial Assistance for Coaching Classes (HBOCWWB). It is also known as FACC(HBOCWWB). The scheme “Financial Assistance for Coaching Classes” is implemented by the Haryana Building and Other Construction Workers Welfare Board (HBOCWWB), Labour Department, Government of Haryana. Under this scheme, financial assistance of ₹20,000/- is provided for coaching classes for admission of children of registered workers in professional/technical courses like Degree/Diploma in Medical, Engineering, Management, MCA, Law, Fashion design, etc., and ₹1,00,000/- for preparation of Main Examination on passing Preliminary Examination of UPSC/HPSSC. The scheme targets beneficiaries such as Individual. It is specifically implemented in Haryana. The implementing agency is Haryana Building & Other Construction Workers Welfare Board. Additionally, the nodal department is Labour Department.

The scheme provides the following benefits: Financial assistance of ₹20,000/is provided for coaching classes for admission of children of registered workers in professional/technical courses like Degree/Diploma in Medical, Engineering, Management, MCA, Law, Fashion Designing, etc.
   Upon passing the Preliminary Examination of UPSC/HPSSC, individuals are eligible for ₹1,00,000/to prepare for the Main Examination.

Eligibility criteria include: The applicant should be engaged in building or construction work.
   The applicant should be registered with the Haryana Building &amp;amp; Other Construction Workers Welfare Board.
   The registered worker must have a minimum of one year’s regular membership.
   The worker must have an active membership with the Board.
   The son/daughter of the worker should be receiving coaching for admission in professional/technical courses from an institute.
   The worker should not have applied again for financial assistance for the coaching of his/her child. The assistance will be provided only once. 
   The spouse of the worker should not have received any financial assistance for coaching classes of his/her child from any government department/board/corporate institution, nor should they have applied for such assistance.
   Financial assistance for coaching will be given up to three children. The application process is as follows: &gt; Registration of a Construction Worker Under HBOCWWB:

Step 01: The construction worker should visit the Official Website of the Labour Department Haryana. 
Step 02: On the home page, click on the “Building &amp;amp; Ors Const. Workers Welfare Board” link.
Step 03: Applicant has to read all the instructions and then “Tick” the acknowledgment, then click on the “Submit” button.
Step 04: Verification using Parivar Pehchan Patra (PPP)Family ID:
a) Forget/not having Family ID: If you do not have PPP ID or forget the PPP ID, then you have to select that radio button and you are redirected to the PPP Portal for getting their PPP ID.
b) Having a Family ID: If you have a family ID, then only you can move to the next step for registration. To proceed further, follow the given steps:
• Select the “I have family ID” radio button
• Enter Parivar Pehchan Patra number Family ID
• Click on “Fetch Family Details” which displays the family members registered under the given Family ID
• Select a family member for registration
• Enter the OTP that is being sent to the selected family member for verification
• Click on “Click to Verify”
Step 05: Aadhaar Verification before Registration: Provide your Aadhaar number and tick mark the checkbox for the declaration. Click on the “Continue” button.
Step 06: After verification, fill out the complete registration form and submit the form.
Step 07: Login into the account: After the final submission of the registration form, a worker can login into his/her account using their username and password but unable to avail of any benefit. 
Step 08: To avail of the benefits, a worker has to pay the registration fee and add a work experience of a minimum of 90 days of the preceding year.
Step 09: Now, the worker needs to add work experience, to add 90 days of experience, the applicant has to fill in all the details where he/she has worked.
Step 10: The schemes and other benefits can be availed once the 90 days’ work experience is approved by the Officer.
HBOCW Registration User Manual        HBOCW Registration Basic Instructions &amp;amp; Features
&gt; Apply for Scheme:

Step 01: Visit the Official Website of the Labour Department Haryana.
Step 02: On the home page, click on &amp;quot;HBOCW Board Beneficiary Login&amp;quot;.
Step 03: Enter your Username, Password, Captcha, and click on the submit button.
Step 04: In the opened window, click on &amp;quot;Schemes&amp;quot;, and a list of schemes will appear on the screen.
Step 05: Now, select the scheme and read its details.
Step 06: Fill in all the required details in the online application form and submit it.
&gt; Application Tracking:

Workers can track their application status online through the official website of the Labour Department Haryana. Relevant updates will be sent to the registered mobile number. For more information, please refer to: Official Website: https://hrylabour.gov.in/bocw/settings/schemeDetail/150 Registration: https://hrylabour.gov.in/bocw/Basicinfo/bocw_terms Login To Apply: https://hrylabour.gov.in/login/bocw Instruction: https://hrylabour.gov.in/staticdocs/BOCW_English.pdf Tags associated with the scheme include: Building Worker, Coaching, Construction Worker, Financial Assistance, Student.