The name of this welfare scheme is  Nirman Shramik Jeevan Bhavishya Suraksha Yojana. It is also known as NSJBSY. The Nirman Shramik Jeevan Bhavishya Suraksha Yojana, launched by the Rajasthan government, offers various benefits to registered construction workers and their families in case of death or injury, whether accidental or natural. This comprehensive scheme complements other initiatives like the Construction Workers Tools/Toolkit Assistance Scheme, Construction Workers Education and Skill Development Scheme, and Construction Workers Sulabh Yojana.


> Objective:

To provide financial security and social protection to registered construction workers and their families.
To encourage workers to contribute to various social security schemes. The scheme targets beneficiaries such as Individual. It is specifically implemented in Rajasthan. Additionally, the nodal department is Labour Department.

The scheme provides the following benefits: For the Pradhan Mantri Suraksha Bima Yojana (PMSBY), the board will reimburse 100% of the annual premium amount of ₹ 12/paid by the beneficiary through deductions from their savings bank account.
For the Pradhan Mantri Jeevan Jyoti Bima Yojana (PMJJBY), the board will reimburse 50% (i.e., ₹ 165/) of the annual premium amount of ₹330/paid by the eligible beneficiary through deductions from their savings bank account.
For the Atal Pension Yojana (APY), the board will reimburse 50% (i.e., half of the average annual contribution amount) of the annual contribution amount deducted from the savings bank account of the eligible beneficiary for receiving a monthly pension of ₹1,000/under the APY.

Eligibility criteria include: The beneficiary must be registered as a construction worker in the board.
The beneficiary must have a savings bank account in their name.
The beneficiary must have an Aadhaar card and a Bhamashah card (optional).
The beneficiary must be eligible for membership in the Pradhan Mantri Suraksha Bima Yojana (PMSBY), Pradhan Mantri Jeevan Jyoti Bima Yojana (PMJJBY), and Atal Pension Yojana (APY), and must have given consent to the respective bank for the deduction of the contribution/premium amount of these schemes or any of these schemes from their savings bank account.
The beneficiary must have deducted the annual contribution/premium amount of these schemes through their savings bank account. The application process is as follows: > Registration

Step1: Applicant have to visit the official portal. 
Step2: Click on the option “Register”.
Step3: Then you will be redirected to the SSO registration page. The registration page will appear with the following options.


  Citizen


Step4: Choose the either one option from  the Jan Aadhaar Or Google to process further.


  Jan Aadhaar : Enter the Jan Aadhaar number, click on the ‘Next’ button,


      Select your name, the name of the head of the family and all the other members and 
      Click on the ‘Send OTP’ button. Enter the ‘OTP’ and 
      Click on the ‘Verify OTP’ button to Complete the registration. 






  Google : Enter the Gmail ID, click on the ‘Next’ button, 


      Enter the password.
      A new link appear on screen, now click on new SSO link.
      SSO id will appear on screen, now create the password.
      Enter Mobile number, click on registration.




 
> Apply 

Step1: Applicant have to visit the official portal. 
Step2: After login, dashboard will open.
Step3: Click on “LDMS” option.
Step4: In LDMS, select &quot;Welfare Schemes&quot; from the side menu and select BOCW Welfare Board. 
Step5: Now click on &quot;Apply for Scheme&quot; on screen. 
Step6: In this new page, will get a list of names of all the schemes of Rajasthan Shramik Card, out of which click on the name of &quot; Yojana&quot;
Step7: Fill out the all relevant detail. 
Step8: Submit. For more information, please refer to: Guidelines: https://jankalyan.rajasthan.gov.in/ Details: https://jankalyan.rajasthan.gov.in/#/scheme/detail/220 Registration: https://sso.rajasthan.gov.in/register Login & Apply: https://sso.rajasthan.gov.in/signin Tags associated with the scheme include: Health, Insurance, Labor, Medical.