The name of this welfare scheme is Kerala Biotechnology Re-Entry Fellowship. It is also known as K-BIREF. The programme “Kerala Biotechnology Re-Entry Fellowship (K-BiREF)” is a fellowship programme to attract well-trained and highly skilled researchers with a good track record (Indian nationals) working abroad in various frontier areas in biotechnology (biomedical sciences, agriculture, veterinary science, bioengineering, energy, environment, bioinformatics, and other related areas) to research and academic institutions in Kerala, by providing them an attractive opportunity to pursue research and development in biotechnology. Applications will be screened by an Expert Committee and shortlisted candidates will be interviewed. The scheme targets beneficiaries such as Individual. It is specifically implemented in Kerala. The implementing agency is Kerala State Council For Science, Technology And Environment. Additionally, the nodal department is Science and Technology Department.

The scheme provides the following benefits: Fellow entitled for a monthly remuneration of ₹1,00,000/and ₹18,500/as HRA per month.
   Annual research /contingency grant of ₹5 lakh each for the first and second year and ₹ 5 lakh each for the subsequent 3 years.
   Host Institution may provide medical benefits, transport allowance, and other benefits as per the prevailing norms applicable to their employees of the equivalent rank out of their own resources/ funds.

Eligibility criteria include: The applicant should possess a Ph.D., M.D., or equivalent degree and at least three years of postdoctoral research experience in premier research laboratories abroad with an outstanding track record of research in biotechnologyrelated areas as reflected in publications and other recognitions.
   Only candidates (Indian nationals) working overseas who are below 45 years of age are eligible; relaxable for 3 years for OBC and 5 years for SC/ST/PH candidates.
   The fellowship is tenable at any reputed institution in Kerala. The application process is as follows: The applications are invited through advertisement and to be submitted online when notified.
&gt; Scrutiny of the Application:

Applications will be screened by an expert committee consisting of experts nominated by the Commission. Shortlisted candidates will have to appear for an interview /presentation which can be either in person or through Skype or similar Telemode. Selected candidates have to execute an agreement accepting the terms and conditions of the Award and must join the Host Institution within three months’ time.
&gt; Presentation before Programme Advisory Committee (PAC):

The expert committee assesses the content and objectives of the proposed work. The decision of Kerala State Council for Science, Technology and Environment (KSCSTE) based on the recommendations of the expert committee on such proposals shall be final.
> Contact Details:

The Scientistincharge 
Kerala Biotechnology Commission
Kerala State Council for Science, Technology and Environment (KSCSTE),
Sasthra Bhavan, Pattom, Thiruvananthapuram – 695 004
Telephone: (0471) 2548406, 2548254,
Email: kbc.kscste@kerala.gov.in, biotechkerala@gmail.com For more information, please refer to: Official Website: https://kscste.kerala.gov.in/kerala-biotechnology-re-entry-fellowship-k-biref/ Guideline: https://kscste.kerala.gov.in/wp-content/uploads/2019/06/K-BIREF_Guidelines22.pdf Terms & Conditions: https://kscste.kerala.gov.in/wp-content/uploads/2019/06/KBiREF_TC_a22.pdf Tags associated with the scheme include: Biotechnology, Fellow, Fellowship, Research, Researcher.