The name of this welfare scheme is Incentive for the Inter Caste Marriage Couple. It is also known as IFTICMC. The Karnataka Social Welfare Department offers an incentive to encourage inter-caste marriages, aiming to reduce caste-based discrimination and promote a more inclusive society. This scheme is targeted at Scheduled Caste (SC) individuals who marry outside their caste, particularly Hindu non-SC individuals. The scheme targets beneficiaries such as Individual. It is specifically implemented in Karnataka. Additionally, the nodal department is Social Welfare Department.

The scheme provides the following benefits: Incentive Amount:

₹2,50,000/for SC men marrying a woman from another caste.
₹3,00,000/for SC women marrying a man from another caste.

Subsidy Disbursement: The incentive is provided in two installments. 

50% in cash.
50% as a fixed deposit with a minimum term of 3 years.

Eligibility criteria include: The bride and groom should belong to the Hindu Category.
   The bride and groom should be residing in Karnataka. 
   The marriage should be performed between Scheduled Caste and other communities. 
   The income of the couple should not exceed ₹5,00,000/.
   The age of the bride should be between 18 to 42 years at the time of marriage.
   The age of the groom should be between 21 to 45 years at the time of marriage. The application process is as follows: Step01: First go to the official website and click &quot; Incentives to Marriages&quot;.
Step02: Select &quot;Incentives to Intercaste Marriages&quot; and Click &quot;Register&quot;
Step03: Using your &quot;Aadhaar Card Number&quot; Register with us providing all required Information.
Step04: Upload all the relevant documents.
Step05: After Registration, an SMS will be sent to the couple and they can print the acknowledgment form as proof of application.
Step06: Social Welfare will do spot verification to verify the details provided by the couple and process the application further.
Step07: After successful spot verification by the department, the incentive will be credited to the joint account of the couple. For more information, please refer to: Guidelines: https://yuvakanaja.karnataka.gov.in/73/financial-aid-%28loan,-subsidy,-incentive-etc.%29/en Tags associated with the scheme include: Financial Assistance, Inter-caste, Marriage.