The name of this welfare scheme is Dr. Muthulakshmi Reddy Ninaivu Inter-caste Marriage Assistance Scheme-II. It is also known as DMRNICMASII. The &#39;Dr. Muthulakshmi Reddy Ninaivu Inter-caste Marriage Assistance Scheme&#39; was launched by the Social Welfare and Women Empowerment Department, Government of Tamil Nadu. The scheme&#39;s objective is to abolish caste and community discrimination by encouraging inter-caste marriage by giving financial assistance to newly married couples of whom one spouse is from other community (Forward Community) and the other from the Backward Class / Most Backward Class Community. The scheme targets beneficiaries such as Individual. It is specifically implemented in Tamil Nadu. Additionally, the nodal department is Department of Social Welfare and Women Empowerment.

The scheme provides the following benefits: Financial assistance of ₹50,000 given to the newly married couple. 
1 Sovereign (8 gm) 22carat gold coin for making Thirumangalyam. 

> Mode of Disbursal:

₹30,000 through Electronic Clearing Service and ₹20,000 in the form of National Savings Certificate.

Eligibility criteria include: The couple should belong to a backward class / most backward class community.
The bride should have passed the 10th standard. 
The bride should have studied up to Vth standard in the case of the scheduled tribe.
The age of the bride should be above 18 years at the time of marriage.
The bride should have a degree passed from regular colleges, distance education/governmentrecognized open university.
The applicant should have a diploma holder passed from the Institution recognized by the Directorate of Technical Education, Government of Tamil Nadu. The application process is as follows: Step 1: The applicant should gather copies of the necessary documents needed to apply for the concerned scheme.
Step 2: The applicant should visit the nearest Common Service Center (CSC) and complete the Biometric Verification Process.
Step 3: In the application form, fill in all the mandatory fields and upload copies of all the mandatory documents.
Step 4: Request a receipt or acknowledgment from the CSC. Ensure that the receipt contains essential details such as the date and time of submission, and a unique identification number (if applicable).
> Application Deadline:

The application should be submitted before the child completes 3 years of age. For more information, please refer to: Citizen's Charter: https://cms.tn.gov.in/sites/default/files/documents/swwe_e_cc_2022_23.pdf Tags associated with the scheme include: Backward Class, Financial Assistance, Inter-Caste, Marriage.