The name of this welfare scheme is Lakshadweep Scholarship Scheme. It is also known as LKDSS. The Lakshadweep Scholarship Scheme an initiative by the Department of Education under the Ministry of Human Resource Development, aims to provide financial assistance to students from the Lakshadweep union territory. This program will alleviate financial burdens and empower students to pursue their educational aspirations. The scheme targets beneficiaries such as Individual. It is specifically implemented in Lakshadweep. Additionally, the nodal department is Education Department, Lakshadweep.

The scheme provides the following benefits: Name of the CoursesScholarship AmountPredegree courses, Post Matric certificate courses, Post Matric Diploma courses, Degree Courses in Arts, Science, commerce, B.Ed., LLB etc.Rate of monthly scholarship ₹ 1,800/, Rate of lump sum grant ₹ 1,500/Post Graduate course in Arts, Science, Commerce, Law etc.Rate of monthly scholarship ₹ 2,100/, Rate of lump sum grant ₹ 1,800/MBBS, BDS, Engineering Degree, MBA, BVSC, BSC(Agriculture) etc.Rate of monthly scholarship ₹  2,100/, Rate of lump sum grant ₹ 3,600/Post Graduate Course in Medicine, Engineering and Veterinary Science, Agriculture etc. and Research Studies like Ph.D.Rate of monthly scholarship ₹ 3,000/, Rate of lump sum grant ₹ 9,000/High school courses or equivalent.₹ 1,200/per monthPrimary school courses (1 to VIII) ₹ 600/per monthSecondary school courses (VIII to X)₹ 200/per monthPlus two students to whom course facilities are available in the island of which the student is native₹ 450/per monthStudents of Bitra Island studying in Secondary Std. in other Island₹ 450/per monthStudents of Plus 2 courses who belong to other islands than where the Institutions is situated and staying outside hostel for want of hostel accommodation₹ 750/per month Students of high school staying outside hostel for want of accommodation in the hostel₹ 600/per month

Eligibility criteria include: Both parents and the student must be born in Lakshadweep or have one parent from Lakshadweep.
The student and the Islander parent must reside in the Islands.
Scholars cannot receive other scholarships, must surrender any awards, and repay funds received.
Retention of concessions granted by the institution or administration is allowed.
Scholars can pursue courses in Arts, Science, Engineering, Medicine, Agriculture, Law, or Commerce in recognized Indian institutions.
Educational concessions on the mainland are only for studies not available in the Islands.
Stipends may be granted or renewed for health reasons or disability. The application process is as follows: The applications are invited on the National Scholarship Portal (NSP) (https://scholarships.gov.in/) in the month of April every year. 
Registration for New Applicant

Open the official NSP website and click on New Registration under Applicant Corner. Read the Instruction /Guidelines, provide the under taking by click on Check box and click on Continue.
Start the registration by Mobile OTP and get the Registration ID. 
Submit required document.



Registered Applicant 

Open the official NSP website and click on Fresh Application under Applicant CornerLogin with application ID &amp; password.
Select the Scholarship. 
Fill out the applicant form.
Upload the required documents.
Submit.
For future reference, a systemgenerated registration number is sent to the students. For more information, please refer to: Guidelines: https://scholarships.gov.in/public/schemeGuidelines/Lakshadweep/Lakshadweep_3024_G.pdf Nation Scholarship Portal: https://scholarships.gov.in/ Tags associated with the scheme include: Education, Higher Education, Scholarship.