The name of this welfare scheme is Aswasakiranam. It is also known as AK. Detailed 
Kerala is a state well known for its efficient and effective health care system. Despite these advancements, much headway could not be made in-home care. Most of the lowest income group always opt for homely treatment as they cannot afford the charges levied by the well-known hospitals. They are bedridden causing a heavy social burden on their family members who are forced to stay back at home to look after these bedridden patients. While the upper-income group can possibly afford to engage paid caregivers or home nurses for looking after such bedridden family members, the lower-income group usually take it upon themselves to care for their bedridden brethren. These family members in fact function as informal caregivers, without due recognition or economic gain.
&lt;br&gt;

Coverage Of Diseases 
●	All bed-ridden patients who need a full-time caregiver.
●	Mentally challenged (Autism, Cerebral Palsy, Mental retardation, Mental illness).
●	100 % blind, bed-ridden cancer patients, old-aged bed-ridden.
●	Brittle bone disease. The scheme targets beneficiaries such as Individual. It is specifically implemented in Kerala. The implementing agency is Kerala Social Security Mission. Additionally, the nodal department is Social Justice Department.

It falls under the categories: Health & Wellness.

Eligibility criteria include: Eligibility 

One who is totally bedridden and at home with a debilitating disability (physical, functional or mental).
One can not take care of himself/herself for any daytoday activity without the support of another person.
One who belongs to a family, Below Poverty Line as per the BPL list and as per the ration card. For more information, please refer to: Details: https://socialsecuritymission.gov.in/scheme_info.php?id=NQ== Application Form: https://socialsecuritymission.gov.in/appln_info.php Tags associated with the scheme include: Financial Assistance, Mentally Disabled, Money Assistance, Physically Disabled.