The name of this welfare scheme is The Lokpal of India Internship Scheme. It is also known as TLOIIS. The Lokpal of India launched &quot;The Lokpal of India Internship Scheme&quot;. The interns will get an opportunity to learn about the implementation of the Lokpal and Lokayuktas Act, the Prevention of Corruption Act, the Central Vigilance Commission Act, the Delhi Police Establishment Act and other related laws and procedures. They will also learn about the functioning of various institutions like, the Lokpal, the Central Vigilance Commission, The Delhi Police Establishment (CBI), etc.


> Duration:

The duration of the internship will be 6 weeks. 


> Attendance:

The interns will have to attend the office on all working days. The scheme targets beneficiaries such as Individual. Additionally, the nodal ministry is The Lokpal of India and the nodal department is The Lokpal of India.

The scheme provides the following benefits: A stipend of ₹10,000/per month. 
The Lokpal of India gives a certificate to the interns completing the internship successfully.
The Lokpal of India provides working space, internet, and other appropriate facilities to the interns.

Eligibility criteria include: The applicant should be a student. 
The applicant should be pursuing a regular undergraduate or postgraduate degree course in the field of Law, Political Science, Public Administration, Public Policy, Management, Economics, or Human Rights.
The applicant must have secured at least 75% or equivalent marks in the 12 class.
The undergraduate student must have completed at least two years of study in the undergraduate course.
The undergraduate student must have a minimum aggregate of 55% or equivalent marks in years completed till the date of application.
The postgraduate students must have a minimum aggregate of 55% or equivalent in the graduation course.
The applicant must have his own laptop for the internship. The application process is as follows: Step 1: The interested Candidate can apply through their Institute/College/University in the annexed application form. 
Step 2: In the application form, fill in all the mandatory fields, and attach copies of all the mandatory documents (selfattest, if required).
Step 3: Submit the duly filled and signed application form along with the documents by post or Email to the Deputy Secretary (Admn.), Lokpal of India: 
> Plot No.6, PhaseII, Vasant Kunj, Institutional Area, New Delhi> Email – lokpal.us@gov.in

Step 4: Request a receipt or acknowledgment from the Deputy Secretary (Admn.), Lokpal of India to whom the application has been submitted. Ensure that the receipt contains essential details such as the date and time of submission, and a unique identification number (if applicable). 
NOTE: The final list of selected interns will be displayed on the Lokpal of India website/notice\board.


> Selection Procedure:

The interns will be selected by a committee appointed by the Hon&#39;ble Chairperson. Criteria for selection would be (1) the course pursued, and (2) academic performance. For more information, please refer to: Guidelines: https://lokpal.gov.in/pdfs/Internship_Scheme_04012024.pdf Application Form: https://lokpal.gov.in/pdfs/Advertisement_2023-24_Internship_Scheme_04012024.pdf Tags associated with the scheme include: Financial Assistance, Internship, Stipend, Student.