The name of this welfare scheme is Shramik Basera Yojana (GBOCWWB). It is also known as SBY(GBOCWWB). The “Shramik Basera Yojana” is implemented by the Gujarat Building and Other Construction Worker’s Welfare Board (GBOCWWB), Labour, Skill Development &amp;amp; Employment Department, Government of Gujarat. Under the scheme, accommodation facilities will be provided to registered construction workers in temporary prefabricated housing with basic amenities that can be dismantled. The scheme targets beneficiaries such as Family, Individual. It is specifically implemented in Gujarat. The implementing agency is Gujarat Building And Other Construction Worker’s Welfare Board. Additionally, the nodal department is Labour and Employment Department.

The scheme provides the following benefits: Under this scheme, accommodation facilities will be provided to the laborers/workers at the rate of ₹5/per day.

Eligibility criteria include: The construction workers registered with the Gujarat Building and Other Construction Worker’s Welfare Board and their families will be eligible to get the benefit of this scheme.
   The registered worker has to present the identity card/smart card (eNirman card) as a construction worker to get assistance and the identity card/smart card should be renewed on time. The application process is as follows: &gt; Application Process for ‘ENirman Card’ under the GBOCWWB:

Step 01: The applicant may visit the eNirman Portal: https://enirmanbocw.gujarat.gov.in/
Step 02: On the home page, under the tab ‘Login to Portal’, click on ‘Please Register Here’.
Step 03: Enter all the mandatory information and then click on ‘Register’.
Step 04: After successful registration, the applicants can login through their User ID and Password.
Step 05: Now, update your profile by entering all the necessary details as required and click on ‘Update’.
Step 06: Select the ‘Construction Works Form’ and fill out all the mandatory information in the form.
Step 07: Upload all the relevant documents, agree with the terms &amp;amp; conditions, and submit the form.
Step 08: Once the application has been submitted, an application Number is generated which can be kept for future reference.
&gt; Process to track Application Status:

Step 01: The applicant may visit the eNirman Portal: https://enirmanbocw.gujarat.gov.in/
Step 02: On the home page, click on ‘View Citizen Application Status’.
Step 03: Enter the Application Number and Date of Birth.
Step 04: Now click on ‘View Status’.
&gt; Application Process for Scheme Benefit:


  Prefabricated temporary accommodation for the laborers/workers will be constructed near their workplace/Kadianaka.
  The registered construction workers can avail the benefits by visiting there. For more information, please refer to: Official Website: https://bocwwb.gujarat.gov.in/schemes.htm Guidelines: https://bocwwb.gujarat.gov.in/Portal/Document/10_380_1_Shramik_Basera_Yojana.pdf Tags associated with the scheme include: Accommodation Facility, Basera, Building Worker, Construction Worker, Labour.