The name of this welfare scheme is Post Office Monthly Income Scheme. It is also known as POMIS. Post Office Monthly Income Scheme (POMIS) is an investment scheme recognized and validated by the Ministry of Finance. It is one of the highest-earning schemes with an interest rate of 6.6%. The interest in this scheme is disbursed monthly. After opening a POMIS account, individuals can invest a suitable amount based on affordability, which, however, should not be less than ₹1500. It provides low risk and steady income where an investor can deposit every month and get interested of MIS in the post office according to their applicable monthly rate. The income on investment is given by the concerned post office every month.


> Features of the POMIS scheme:


1. Maturity period- The maximum tenure of the Indian post office monthly income scheme is 5 years.
1. Number of holders- At least 1 and at most 3 individuals can hold post office MIS.
1. Nomination- Only the nominee will get all scheme benefits after the investor’s demise. Nominee can be assigned later on after opening an account.
1. Transfer- Individuals can transfer their MIS account in one post office to another anywhere in India.
1. POMIS bonus- Accounts opened after 1st Dec 2011 have no bonus facility. However, those opened before that enjoy a 5% bonus.
1. Taxability- Any income from this scheme does not come under TDS or tax deduction. The post office monthly income scheme tax benefit is zero. The scheme targets beneficiaries such as Individual. Additionally, the nodal ministry is Ministry Of Finance and the nodal department is Department of Financial Service.

It falls under the categories: Banking,Financial Services and Insurance.

Eligibility criteria include: The applicant must be a citizen of India.
The applicant must be residing in India.
The applicant should be at least 18 years old. 



Note: You can open an account on behalf of a minor who is 10 years old or older. When kids reach the age of 18, they will be able to access the fund. After reaching the age of majority, a minor must apply for conversion of the account in his name. For more information, please refer to: Guidelines: https://www.indiapost.gov.in/Financial/pages/content/post-office-saving-schemes.aspx Tags associated with the scheme include: Investment.