The name of this welfare scheme is Agricultural Marketing Infrastructure. It is also known as AMI. The scheme envisages value addition and processing at farmers level so as to enhance their income by selling more marketable and processed produce in the market. For creation of Agricultural Marketing Infrastructure including scientific Storage capacity, the Ministry of Agriculture &amp; Farmers Welfare, Govt. of India is implementing capital subsidy sub-scheme “Agricultural Marketing Infrastructure (AMI)” of Integrated Scheme for Agricultural Marketing (ISAM) across the country and is continued till 31.03.2026


Projects for creation of storage infrastructure (50-5000 MT for Private &amp;Cooperatives and 50-10,000 MT for State agencies) and other marketing infrastructure projects (other than storage) are eligible for assistance under the scheme.


AMI is an open ended, demand driven, credit linked, back ended subsidy scheme. Beneficiaries viz, Individuals, Agri-preneurs, farmers, FPOs, Cooperatives, and state agencies etc. are eligible for assistance. Under the scheme, the subsidy @ 25% for plain areas and 33.33% for NER, hilly area, Women/SC/ST promoters &amp; FPOs etc is available for development of Agricultural Marketing Infrastructure Projects including storage infrastructure, Infrastructure for development/Upgradation of Rural Haats as Grameen Agricultural Market (GrAMs), Common Facilitation Centre for FPOs, Marketing infrastructures in market yards, Infrastructure for direct marketing, Mobile infrastructure for post-harvest operations including reefer vans, Stand-alone cold storages up to 1000 MTs, Integrated Value Chain (IVC) Projects up to primary processing stage etc. Assistance under the sub-scheme is inter-alia available to Individuals, Farmers, Group of farmers/growers, Registered Farmer Produce Organizations (FPOs) / FPCs, firms, companies, corporations, NGOs, SHGs, Cooperatives, Cooperative Marketing Federations, Autonomous Bodies of the Government, Local Bodies, Panchayats, State Agencies etc. The scheme targets beneficiaries such as All. The implementing agency is Directorate Of Marketing & Inspection, Head Office, Faridabad. Additionally, the nodal ministry is Ministry Of Agriculture and Farmers Welfare and the nodal department is Department of Agriculture & Farmers Welfare.

The scheme provides the following benefits: The scheme envisages the following benefits:
1)	Ensure remunerative prices to the farmers for their produce
2)	Alternative &amp;competitive marketing channels
3)	Promotion of small size processing units
4)	Reduce postharvest &amp; handling losses
5)	Promote pledge financing and market access
6)	Farmerconsumer market linkages and also to assist in integration GrAMs with eNAM portal

Eligibility criteria include: Anyone can apply for the scheme. The application process is as follows: Step 01:Promoter applies for Term Loan (TL) to Financial Institution (FI) 
Step 02:Tem loan sanctioned by FIs
Step 03:FI applies for Advance Subsidy within 90 days of disbursal of First instalment of TL through ENSURE portal of NABARD
Step 04:NABARD, sanctions and releases the Advance Subsidy to the FI
Step 05:After completion of the project, FI will submit final subsidy claim to NABARD and requests for Joint Monitoring Inspection (JMI)
Step 06: NABARD will initiate action for conduct of JMI and Geotagged photograph taken during JMI is uploaded to the Ensure Portal
Step 07: NABARD sanctions and releases final subsidy to the FI For more information, please refer to: Guidelines: https://dmi.gov.in/Documents/AMI_OG_Scheme.pdf Amendments: https://dmi.gov.in/Documents/ContinuationofAMISub-schemeofISAM.pdf Tags associated with the scheme include: Agricultural Marketing, Farmer, Promoter, Storage Infrastructure.