The name of this welfare scheme is Financial Assistance To Pre-primary School In Remote Areas. It is also known as Fappsra. The scheme &quot;Financial Assistance to Pre-Primary School in Remote Areas&quot; by the Department of Tribal Welfare, Government of Goa provides financial assistance to set up pre-primary schools in the remote tribal areas which lack the facility of pre-primary education for the tribal population. Financial assistance in the form of rent amount payable for the premises, fixed remuneration to one Teacher, one helper, teaching aid/equipment, toys, and mid-meal will be provided under this scheme. The scheme targets beneficiaries such as University / Institution. It is specifically implemented in Goa. Additionally, the nodal department is Social Welfare Department.

The scheme provides the following benefits: > Rent

Up to ₹ 2,000/per month recurring expenditure depending upon the quality of the facility.


> Snacks

₹ 300/per month per student as refreshment expenses


> Teaching Aids/ Toys and Other Teaching Materials

Fixed Amount of ₹ 25,000/for the first year. 
For the next four years, ₹ 15,000/per annum for Toys and other teaching material.


> Remuneration of Trained Teacher

Fixed Remuneration of ₹ 10,000/per month for Trained Teacher (₹ 8,000/per month if the Teacher is untrained).
Every year, an incremental rise of 10% to the remuneration of the trained Teacher, subject to satisfactory performance during the preceding year. 
One additional Teacher will be sanctioned in cases where the number of ST students exceeds 20 to form a separate class.


> Remuneration of the Helper

The rate prescribed under the minimum wages Act and as revised by the Government under the Minimum Wages Act from time to time. 
One additional Helper will be sanctioned in cases where the number of ST students exceeds 20 to form a separate class.


> Mode of Disbursal

The amount of benefit will be transferred electronically to the Bank Account of the beneficiaries.

Eligibility criteria include: There should not be a preprimary school already existing in the locality.
The school should have at least ten (10) Scheduled Tribe (ST) students in a class of twenty (20) students, to avail the benefit of one post of teacher and one post of Helper.
Educational Qualification/Training for the Trained Teacher will be as per the eligibility requirements fixed by the Education Department for Primary Teachers/PrePrimary Teachers. 
In case no trained teacher is available in that particular locality, the Government may consider the appointment of an untrained teacher. The untrained teacher shall obtain the necessary qualification within a period of 3 years.



> Agencies/ Individuals

Existing Primary Schools including Government Primary schools/ High Schools from the locality.
NGO with three years of experience in the line of managing preprimary schools.
Trained teacher having experience in teaching preprimary students. The application process is as follows: Step 1: The interested persons/ agencies should visit the Department of Tribal Welfare, Govt. of Goa, Shram Shakti Bhavan,
5th Floor, Patto, PanajiGoa, 403 Step 2: Take a print of the proforma of the application form, or request a hard copy from the concerned authority.
Step 3: In the application form, fill in all the mandatory fields, paste the passportsized photograph (signed across), and attach copies of all the mandatory documents (selfattest if required).
Step 4: Submit the duly filled and signed application form along with the documents to the Director.


> Scrutiny and Sanction

The applications received will be scrutinized by the Director of Tribal Welfare and will be placed before the statelevel committee for consideration of the cases. For more information, please refer to: Notification: https://www.tribalwelfare.goa.gov.in/attachments/article/56/Notification%20A.pdf Citizen's Charter: https://www.goa.gov.in/wp-content/uploads/2022/05/Citizen-Charter-2022-tribal-welfare.pdf Tags associated with the scheme include: Refreshment, Remuneration, School, Training, Tribal.