The name of this welfare scheme is Pre Matric Scholarship For Scheduled Tribe Students. It is also known as PRE-ST. A scholarship scheme by Ministry of Tribal Affairs for regular, full time students from Scheduled Tribe studying in Class 9th and 10th, in a Government School or in a School recognized by Govt. or a Central/State Board of Secondary Education. The income of the student’s Parents/Guardian should not exceed Rs. 2.00 lakh per annum.


The scheme aims to support the parents of ST children for education of their wards so that the incidence of drop-out, especially in the transition from the elementary to the secondary stage is minimized. The scheme improves the participation of ST children of the prematric stage, so that they perform better and have a better chance of progressing to the post-matric stage of education. 


The scholarship will be available for studies in India only and will be awarded by the Government of the State/Union Territory to which the applicant belongs i.e. where she/he is domiciled. The scholarship for studying in any class will be available for only one year. The scheme targets beneficiaries such as Individual. The implementing agency is National Scholarship Portal (NSP). Additionally, the nodal ministry is Ministry Of Tribal Affairs.

It falls under the categories: Education & Learning, Social welfare & Empowerment.

Eligibility criteria include: The applicant must be a student studying in Class 9th or Class 10th.
The applicant must be from Scheduled Tribe.
The Total Annual income of parents/guardians of the applicant (from all sources) must not exceed ₹ 50 Lakh per Annum.
The applicant must not be availing of any other scholarship by the govt. For more information, please refer to: Guidelines: https://scholarships.gov.in/public/schemeGuidelines/PRE_MATRIC_ST_(Class_IX_X)_GUIDELINES.pdf Tags associated with the scheme include: Books, Person With Disability, Pre Matric, PwD, Scheduled Tribe, Scholarship, Social Welfare, Student, Tuition Fee.