The name of this welfare scheme is Award of Scholarship to the Cadets Belonging to UT of Puducherry and Studying in Rashtriya Indian Military College, Dehradun. It is also known as ASCBUTPSRIMCD. The scheme &quot;Award of Scholarship to the Cadets Belonging to UT of Puducherry and Studying in Rashtriya Indian Military College, Dehradun&quot; is a Scholarship Scheme by the Directorate of School Education, Union Territory of Puducherry. The objective of this scheme is to extend scholarships worth of ₹20,000/- per annum to the cadets belonging to the Union Territory of Puducherry who come from economically weak backgrounds and have been selected for admission into the Rashtriya Indian Military College, Dehradun. The scheme targets beneficiaries such as Individual. It is specifically implemented in Puducherry. Additionally, the nodal department is School Education Department, Puducherry.

The scheme provides the following benefits: > Scholarship

₹20,000/per annum per cadet.
> Mode of Disbursal

The amount is disbursed directly into the Aadhaarseeded viable bank account by Direct Benefit Transfer (DBT) through the Electronic Clearance System (ECS).

Eligibility criteria include: The applicant should be a citizen of India.
The applicant should belong to the UT of Puducherry either by birth or domicile i.e. continuous residence of not less than 5 years.
The applicant should be studying at Rashtriya Indian Military College (RIMC), Dehradun. The application process is as follows: Step 1: The interested applicant should visit the Principal, Rashtriya Indian Military College, Dehradun, and request a hard copy of the prescribed format of the application form for the concerned scheme.
Step 2: In the application form, fill in all the mandatory fields, paste the passportsized photograph (signed across, if required), and attach copies of all the mandatory documents (selfattest, if required).
Step 3: The interested applicant should submit the duly filled and signed application form and the documents to the Principal. The Principal then sends the applications to the Directorate of School Education, Puducherry. For more information, please refer to: Guidelines: https://schooledn.py.gov.in/Welfare/InnerPages/edu_CadetScholarship.html Tags associated with the scheme include: Cadet, Education, Military, Scholarship.