The name of this welfare scheme is "Conducting of Exhibitions" Component of the "Development of Coir" Scheme. It is also known as CECDCS. The &quot;Conducting of Exhibitions&quot; Component of the &quot;Development of Coir&quot; Scheme by the Department of Industries and Commerce, Union Territory of Puducherry, aims to enhance awareness of diverse coir products and promote their market presence. It extends financial support, including a daily allowance of ₹150 per participant and travel reimbursements, to both local and outstation participants. The initiative emphasizes the eco-friendly nature of coir products. The scheme targets beneficiaries such as Individual. It is specifically implemented in Puducherry. Additionally, the nodal department is District Industries Centre Organization.

The scheme provides the following benefits: Participants receive a daily allowance of ₹150 during the exhibition.
Travel expenses, in 2nd sleeper class, are provided for the journey from production units to the exhibition venue and back.
Actual transportation charges for transferring coir products from industrial units to the exhibition site are covered.
Free stall space is allocated to participants during the exhibition.

Eligibility criteria include: Participants receive a daily allowance of ₹150 during the exhibition.
Travel expenses, in 2nd sleeper class, are provided for the journey from production units to the exhibition venue and back.
Actual transportation charges for transferring coir products from industrial units to the exhibition site are covered.
Free stall space is allocated to participants during the exhibition. The application process is as follows: Step 1: The interested applicant should take print of the prescribed format of the application form.
Step 2: In the application form, fill in all the mandatory fields, paste the passportsized photograph (signed across, if required), and attach copies of all the mandatory documents (selfattest, if required).
Step 3: The interested applicant should visit (on a working day, and during office hours) the Project Manager (Cottage Industries) of the District Industries Centre (Thattanchavady, Puducherry 605 009), and submit the duly filled and signed application form and the documents to the concerned authority.
Step 4: On receipt of the application, necessary entries will be made in the application receipt register and a unique number is assigned to the applicant for identifying each applicant which shall be used for all further references and also as acknowledgement for the receipt of the application. For more information, please refer to: Guidelines: https://dic.py.gov.in/development-of-coir Citizen's Charter: https://dic.py.gov.in/sites/default/files/citizencharter.pdf Application Form: https://dic.py.gov.in/application-forms-download-area Contact Us: https://dic.py.gov.in/contact-us Grievance Redressal: https://industry.py.gov.in/grievance-redressal-mechanism Tags associated with the scheme include: Allowance, Awareness, Coir, Exhibition.