The name of this welfare scheme is Mukhmantri Sehat Bima Yojana. It is also known as Mmsby. Ayushman Bharat PM-JAY Mukhmantri Sehat Bima Yojana (AB PM-JAY MMSBY), was launched on 20 August 2019 this is a flagship State Health Insurance Scheme for the beneficiaires of State of Punjab. AB PM-JAY MMSBY will provide financial protection to 65% population of state of Punjab. It is entitlement based cashless Health Insurance cover. Under this scheme cashless and paperless treatment is available at Government and empaneled Private hospitals.
&lt;br&gt; The scheme targets beneficiaries such as Individual. It is specifically implemented in Punjab. Additionally, the nodal department is Department of Health & Family Welfare.

The scheme provides the following benefits: A health insurance cover of 5 lakh rupees per family per year for secondary and tertiary care hospitalization (inpatient services) for treatment of listed diseases and medical conditions.

Eligibility criteria include: Residents of Punjab. 
Applicants should be from the following categories

   SECC 2011 data families, 
   Smart Ration Card holder families, 
   JForm holder farmers, 
   Small traders registered with Excise &amp; Taxation Department, 
   Small &amp; Marginal Farmers, 
   Accredited &amp; Yellow Card Journalist and Construction workers registered with Punjab Building &amp; Other Construction Workers Welfare Board. The application process is as follows: Enrolment Process
AB PMJAY MMSBY is an entitlementbased scheme. There is no enrolment process. Families who are identified by the Government of India based on SECC 2011 data, Smart Ration card holders families as per the database of Food and Civil Supplies, Small &amp; Marginal Farmers and Jform holder farmer families as per data provided by Punjab Mandi Board, Small trader families as per data provided by Excise &amp; Taxation Department, Accredited &amp; Yellow Card Journalist as per data provided by PUNMEDIA, and Registered Construction worker families as per data provided by the Construction Worker Welfare Board are entitled to AB PMJAY MMSBY.


A dedicated AB PMJAY MMSBY family identification number will be allotted to eligible families. Print of individual ecard will also be given to every family member at the Common Service Center (CSCs), Market Committee, Sewa Kendra by paying thirty rupees (Rs. 30/) per card. For more information, please refer to: Official Portal: https://sha.punjab.gov.in/shapunjab/index.php Tags associated with the scheme include: Health, Insurance, Medical, Welfare.