The name of this welfare scheme is "Infrastructure Subsidy" under "Motivation of Entrepreneurs to Start Industries and Fiscal Assistance to Industries". It is also known as INFS-MESIFAI. The &quot;Infrastructure Subsidy&quot; is a Component of the &quot;Motivation of Entrepreneurs to Start Industries and Fiscal Assistance to Industries&quot; Scheme by the Industries and Commerce Department, Union Territory of Puducherry. 25% subsidy is provided to the industrial units who have made investments on building with a minimum extent of 50,000 sq. ft. constructed area. The applications are accepted offline in the prescribed form available on the Official Website of the Department. The scheme targets beneficiaries such as Business Entity. It is specifically implemented in Puducherry. Additionally, the nodal department is Industries and Commerce Department, Puducherry.

The scheme provides the following benefits: 25% subsidy subject to a maximum of ₹1,00,00,000/. For the infrastructure developer who has made investment on building with a minimum extent of 50,000 sq. ft. constructed area, for leasing out to IT industries.
25% subsidy subject to a maximum of ₹1,00,00,000/. For the industrial unit, which is investing for construction of factory building of not less than 50,000 sq.ft for setting up of the IT industries.
25% subsidy subject to a maximum of ₹1,00,00,000/. For the infrastructure developer who has made investment on building with a minimum extent of 50,000 sq. ft. constructed area, for leasing out to the biotechnology industries.
25% subsidy subject to a maximum of ₹50,00,000/. For the biotechnology industry unit which has made investment on building with a minimum extent of 5,000 sq. ft for selfoccupation.



> Number of Installments

The subsidy shall be disbursed in annual installment not exceeding ₹25,00,000/per annum till completion of the total eligible subsidy.

Eligibility criteria include: The applicant should be an infrastructure developer who has made investment on building with a minimum extent of 50,000 sq. ft. constructed area, for leasing out to IT industries.
OR
The applicant should be an industrial unit, which is investing for construction of factory building of not less than 50,000 sq.ft for setting up of the IT industries.
OR
The applicant should be an infrastructure developer who has made investment on building with a minimum extent of 50,000 sq. ft. constructed area, for leasing out to the biotechnology industries.
OR
The applicant should be a biotechnology industry unit which has made investment on building with a minimum extent of 5,000 sq. ft for selfoccupation.
The subsidy would be eligible for the investment made on building on or after For the purpose of this scheme, &quot;IT industries&quot; mean Manufacturers of Computer Systems, Software/Information Technology Enabled Services (ITES), Business Process Outsourcing (BPO) and Knowledge Process Outsourcing (KPO). The application process is as follows: Step 1: The industrial unit should register the claim for the grant of incentive/subsidy in the prescribed form available on the Official Website of the Directorate of Industries and Commerce, Puducherry.
Step 2: In the application form, fill in all the mandatory fields, and attach copies of all the mandatory documents (selfattest, if required).
Step 3: The unit should submit the duly filled and signed application form and the documents to the concerned authority.
Step 4: Request a receipt or acknowledgement from the concerned authority to whom the application form has been submitted. Ensure that the receipt contains essential details such as the date and time of submission, and a unique identification number (if applicable). 
The State Level Committee will go into the merits of each case to decide whether the unit qualifies for the grant of incentive/subsidy.


> Application Deadline

For New Units
Within one year from the date of commencement of obtaining the Entrepreneurs Memorandum Part2/ Permanent Registration/ Commencement of Production Certificate.
For Existing Units
Within one year of completion of Expansion/ Diversification/ Modernization. For more information, please refer to: Guidelines: https://industry.py.gov.in/sites/default/files/subsidy-g.o-2012.pdf Application Form & Documents Required: https://industry.py.gov.in/common-application-subsidies Grievance Redressal: https://industry.py.gov.in/grievance-redressal-mechanism Helpline: https://industry.py.gov.in/state-helpline Tags associated with the scheme include: Entrepreneurship, Industry, Infrastructure, Subsidy.