The name of this welfare scheme is Senior Citizens Saving Scheme. It is also known as SCSS. The Senior Citizens’ Saving Scheme is a retirement benefit program by the Government of India. Individuals over 60 years can opt for the SCSS scheme by investing by making an individual or joint investment. In addition, this scheme provides tax benefits. In SCSS, the installment amount ranges between ₹1,000 and ₹15 lakhs. This amount is constricted to the retirement benefits. One must deposit it in the Senior Citizen Scheme account within a month from receiving retirement benefits from his/her employer. Moreover, if individual deposits more than the given amount, the additional funds get refunded to the account holder. One can extend the scheme for 3 more years from its date of maturity. The Interest Rate is 7.40% per annum (Q2 FY 2022-23). The Tenure is 5 years (with an option to extend it for 3 more years). The Minimum Investment Amount is ₹1,000. The Maximum Investment Amount ₹15,00,000 or the amount received on retirement, whichever is lower. The scheme targets beneficiaries such as Individual. The implementing agency is State Bank Of India, Bank Of Baroda, ICICI Bank, Bank Of India, Corporation Bank, Punjab National Bank, UCO Bank, Allahabad Bank, Syndicate Bank, Union Bank Of India. Additionally, the nodal ministry is Ministry Of Finance and the nodal department is Department of Financial Service.

It falls under the categories: Banking,Financial Services and Insurance.

Eligibility criteria include: Indian citizens above the age of 60 years
Retirees in the age bracket of 5560 years who have opted for Voluntary Retirement Scheme (VRS) or Superannuation
Retired defense personnel above 50 years and below 60 years of age



(Investment must be made within a month of availing the retirement benefits.) For more information, please refer to: Guidelines: https://rbidocs.rbi.org.in/rdocs/content/pdfs/SCSSGOL17042020.pdf Guidelines: https://www.nsiindia.gov.in/InternalPage.aspx?Id_Pk=168 Tags associated with the scheme include: Banking, Finance, Senior Citizen.