The name of this welfare scheme is Mukhyamantri Work Form Home-Job Work Yojana. It is also known as MWFH. Rajasthan government has launched 26-08-2022 a new scheme for women, the Mukhyamantri Work From–Job Work Scheme Under the Women and Child Development Department, Rajasthan who can contribute to the family income while working from home. Now women of the state will be able to get employment sitting at home through this scheme. Many women cannot go out and work, the government wants to help them by giving them work at home so that they can work at home and earn money to support their families financially.
During work from home, women will be made to work from home through various departments like the Women Empowerment Department, School and Higher and Technical Education, Works Department, and Information Technology and Communication Department, and this will include typing, documentation, dictation, etc. Instructions will be issued keeping this in mind.


> School and higher and technical education

Through school and higher and technical education, women students will be allowed to study online and some women will be given the work of stitching dresses to be given to the students in the school. Along with this, women can do the work of washing clothes, bedsheets, etc. used in school while sitting at home.


> Department of Information Technology and Communication

In this department, women will be given work related to programming like software design, data analysis, and web design. Due to this women will be friends with modern methods and through this, they will also be able to earn a good income.


> Finance department

Important instructions will be issued to women in the financial department to get the work related to accounting and auditing done in government agencies by the women of the state through work from home.


> Women Empowerment Department

Under this work, counseling services will be provided to women in the form of work from home.


> Medical Health and Family Welfare Department- 

Online consultation service from women specialist doctors, transcription, sewing work of clothes used in hospitals.


> Department of Skills, Employment and Entrepreneurship -

Organize employment fairs/ camps and ensure participation of such employers who provide employment opportunities in the form of work-from-home-job work. To provide work from home job work to the women registered under the scheme through these fairs/camps.


> Rajasthan Skills and Livelihood Development Corporation (RSLDC) -

To connect at least 10 percent of the women trained under the training being conducted by Rajasthan Skills and Livelihood Development Corporation through training partners with work from home-job work.


> Rajasthan Co-operative Dairy Federation (RCDF) – 

To provide work from home- job work opportunities to women in work related to the processing and marketing of milk and milk products. The scheme targets beneficiaries such as Individual. It is specifically implemented in Rajasthan. Additionally, the nodal department is Women and Child Development Department.

The scheme provides the following benefits: > Financial and nonfinancial incentives Advertisement of such private unit which provides work from homejob work to a maximum number of women will be displayed free of cost on the Work from HomeJob Work portal.
If a private unit provides work from home job work to women and the payment for the work given to the woman is more than ₹  5,000, then ₹  3,000 per trainee will be given as a training incentive, as a training fee. However, the payment of the training incentive amount will be given to the female trainee only after the offer letter is given by the private entity in the form of work from homejob work.

Eligibility criteria include: The applicant must be a resident of Rajasthan.
The minimum age of the applicant should be 18 years.
Preference will be given to widow/abandoned/divorced/disabled/victim of violence. The application process is as follows: Step1: Visit the “ Mukhyamantri Work From Home –Job Work Yojna ” Portal.
Step2: Click on Applicant (only female) under &quot;Onboarding&quot; option.
Step3: Now click on &quot;New User Register&quot; 
Step4: Register as a “ Woman Applicant ” through “ JanAadhaar Number ” and “ Aadhaar Number ”
Step5: All details of Applicant are fetched from JanAadhaar Number &amp; Aadhaar Number.
Step6: Click on the “ Submit ” button &amp; Registration is complete And intimation is sent to the applicant through SMS.
Step7: Applicant can view/ search Opportunity and Apply.
Step8: Organization check applicant details and Verify Documents.
Step9: Organization Accept/Reject the application.
Step10: Intimation sent to Applicant through SMS. For more information, please refer to: Scheme Details: https://schemes.rajasthan.gov.in/scheme/detail/1020 Registration: https://mahilawfh.rajasthan.gov.in/candidate/registration Log In: https://mahilawfh.rajasthan.gov.in/candidate/login Tags associated with the scheme include: Employment, Empower, Women, Work From Home.