The name of this welfare scheme is Unemployment Allowance. It is also known as UEA. The main objective of the Chhattisgarh Berozgari Bhatta Yojana is to provide financial assistance to the unemployed youth of the state till they get employment.
&lt;br&gt; The scheme targets beneficiaries such as Individual. It is specifically implemented in Chhattisgarh. Additionally, the nodal department is Higher Education Department.

It falls under the categories: Education & Learning.

Eligibility criteria include: Conditions of qualification

   The applicant should be a native of Chhattisgarh.
   The age of the applicant should be between 18 years to 35 years as on 01 April of the year in which the application is made.
   The applicant must have passed the minimum Higher Secondary (12th) examination from a recognized board.
   Should be registered in any District Employment and SelfEmployment Guidance Center of Chhattisgarh and his employment registration should be at least two years old with higher secondary or above qualification as on April 01 of the year of application.
   The applicant should not have any source of income of his own and the annual income of the applicant&amp;#39;s family from all sources should not exceed Rs.2,50,000/.

&lt;br&gt;

Conditions of disqualification

   If more than one member of a family fulfills the conditions of eligibility for unemployment allowance, only one member of the family will be approved for unemployment allowance. In such a situation, unemployment allowance will be approved to that member whose age is more. In case of equality of age, the member who got registered first in the employment office will be eligible for unemployment allowance. In case both the age and date of employment registration are same, the member who has higher educational qualification will be eligible.
   If any member of the applicant&amp;#39;s family is employed in any category of job other than ClassIV or GroupD in any Central or State Government organization or local body, such applicant will be ineligible for unemployment allowance.
   If the applicant is offered selfemployment or any job in government or private sector, but the applicant does not accept the offer, then such applicant will be ineligible for unemployment allowance.
   Family members of former and present Ministers, State Ministers and former or present Members of Parliament or State Legislatures, former and present Mayors of Municipal Corporations and former and present Chairpersons of District Panchayats shall be ineligible for unemployment allowance.
   The family members of pensioners who receive monthly pension of Rs.10,000 or more will be ineligible for unemployment allowance. 
   The family members of those families who have paid income tax in the previous assessment year will be ineligible for unemployment allowance.
   Family members of other professionals such as engineers, doctors, lawyers, chartered accountants and architects registered with professional bodies shall be ineligible for unemployment allowance.

&lt;br&gt;

&lt;br&gt; For more information, please refer to: Guidelines: https://berojgaribhatta.cg.nic.in/Berojgaribatta_guidelines.pdf FAQ: https://berojgaribhatta.cg.nic.in/FAQ.pdf Tags associated with the scheme include: Berozgari Bhatta, Financial Assistance, Unemployment.