The name of this welfare scheme is "Reactivation Of Fisheries Cooperative Societies" Component of the "Mukhyamantri Maschyajibi Kalyan Yojana" Scheme. It is also known as MMKY-RFCS. The &quot;Reactivation Of Fisheries Cooperative Societies&quot; Component of the &quot;Mukhyamantri Maschyajibi Kalyan Yojana&quot; Scheme was launched by the Fisheries &amp; Animal Resources Development Department, Government of Odisha. The objective of this scheme is to provide a one-time revolving fund of ₹2,00,000/- to each eligible Primary Fishermen Cooperative Society for working capital of the society and improvement of the socio-economic status of the members in the long run. The scheme shall be implemented by the Directorate of Fisheries through the respective District Fisheries Officer. The scheme targets beneficiaries such as Registered Societies. It is specifically implemented in Odisha. Additionally, the nodal department is Fisheries and Animal Resources Development Department.

The scheme provides the following benefits: A onetime revolving fund of ₹2,00,000/.

Eligibility criteria include: The applicant should be an active Primary Fisherman Cooperative Society (PFCS).
The PFCS should have completed at least 1 year from the date of its registration under &quot;The Odisha Cooperative Societies Act1962&quot;.
The PFCS should be in working condition.
The PFCS should not have availed the revolving fund before.
The PFCS should be conducting Committee of Management meetings and AGB meetings in time as per the OCS Act and Rules framed there under the Bylaws of the Society.
The PFCS  should have paid the Government lease value of the reservoir/ pond if taken on lease as per the Rules.
The PFCS should be able to produce last year&#39;s audited balance sheets with Profit Loss accounts of the Society from AGCSempanelled CA firms/auditors. The application process is as follows: The scheme shall be advertised through the Departmental website, newspapers and wall posters in the District and Block Fisheries Offices across the state.
Step 1: The interested PFCS should take print of the prescribed format of the application form.
Step 2: In the application form, fill in all the mandatory fields, paste the passportsized photograph (signed across, if required), and attach copies of all the mandatory documents (selfattest, if required).
Step 3: Submit the duly filled and signed application form along with the documents to the District Fisheries Officer of the concerned district.
Step 4: Request a receipt or acknowledgement from the concerned authority to whom the application has been submitted. Ensure that the receipt contains essential details such as the date and time of submission, and a unique identification number (if applicable). For more information, please refer to: Guidelines & Application Form: https://fard.odisha.gov.in/sites/default/files/2023-10/6.%20Reactivation%20of%20Primary%20Fisheries%20Cooperative%20Societies.PDF Tags associated with the scheme include: Financial Assistance, Fishermen, Society.