The name of this welfare scheme is Dwarf Pension Scheme. It is also known as DPS. The Department of Social Welfare, Government of Uttarakhand introduced a scheme named &amp;quot;Dwarf Pension Scheme&amp;quot; with the aim to provide financial assistance to people suffering from dwarfism. This scheme aims to integrate individuals with dwarfism into mainstream society by providing financial assistance. The main aim of this scheme is to provide the social security to the Dwarf people of the state who are unable to sustain themselves from their own resources. This scheme will provide a better livelihood and make their life easy. In this scheme, dwarf below 4 feet are eligible for getting benefits of this pension scheme. The scheme targets beneficiaries such as Individual. It is specifically implemented in Uttarakhand. Additionally, the nodal department is Department Of Social Welfare.

The scheme provides the following benefits: State Government provides financial assistance of ₹1,200/per month to the Dwarf people.

Eligibility criteria include: The applicant should be a resident of Uttarakhand state.
The age should be 21 years or more, and the benefit of any other scheme is not being provided under the social security program.
The applicant&amp;#39;s height should be below 4 feet for getting benefits of the Dwarf Pension Scheme.
There is no provision for a monthly income limit for eligibility under this scheme. The application process is as follows: Apply for Scheme: 
Step 1: Visit the Official Website of the Department Of Social Welfare.
Step 2: Click on “New Online Application” in the menu item for Online Application.
Step 3: The registration form will be displayed.
Step 4: Select the scheme in the registration form and fill in the required information.
Step 5: After saving the application form, the applicant will receive the password of the applicant login by SMS at the address given by the applicant.
Step 6: Click on the “Applicant Login” under the menu item to apply online using these login IDs and passwords.
Step 7: Once you have successfully logged in , the information on your registered application form will be updated as needed.
Step 8: Upload the documents required for the scheme (as indicated in the required document menu item) by clicking the Upload documents menu item (File type: pdf; file size: 1 MB).
Step 9: After uploading all the required documents, the applicant will be able to take a printout of the application form by clicking on the Print Application Form menu item.
Step 10: After uploading all the required documents, the applicant will be able to take a printout of the application form by clicking on the Print Application Form menu item.
Track Application:
Step 1: Visit the Official Website of the Department Of Social Welfare.
Step 2: Click on Check your pension status in the menu item.
Step 3: Enter your Enter application number/ Mobile number/ Aadhaar number
Step 4: Then click on the “Search” button to see the application status.
Note: Once your application is under process or processed, you cannot update. Download the application form for this scheme.Fill all the details, enclosed all the documents and submit in the office of the Officer, Social Welfare Department by getting signed by the Head of the Village in case of Rural areas and District Officer in case of Urban areas. For more information, please refer to: Guidelines: https://socialwelfare.uk.gov.in/pages/display/120-bauna-pension Offline Application Form: https://socialwelfare.uk.gov.in/files/e-Bauna_Pension.pdf Documents: https://ssp.uk.gov.in/Documents/Requireddocuments.pdf Tags associated with the scheme include: Bauna Pension, Social Empowerment.