The name of this welfare scheme is Financial Assistance to Orphan Children of Ex-Servicemen. It is also known as FAOCESM. The scheme &amp;quot;Financial Assistance to Orphan Children of Ex-Servicemen&amp;quot; is implemented by the Sainik and Ardh Sainik Welfare Department, Government of Haryana. Under the scheme, financial assistance of ₹3,000/‐ per month shall be granted to those Orphan Children of Ex-Servicemen (ESM) only who are bonafide resident of the Haryana State and are not in receipt of any kind of financial assistance from any Department of Haryana Government. The benefits under this scheme are given only to those orphan children of ex-servicemen who are below age 21 years, unmarried, and unemployed. The scheme targets beneficiaries such as Individual. It is specifically implemented in Haryana. The implementing agency is Sainik And Ardh Sainik Welfare Department, Government Of Haryana. Additionally, the nodal department is Sainik and Ardh Sainik Welfare Department.

The scheme provides the following benefits: Under the scheme, financial assistance of ₹3,000/per month is given to the orphan children of exservicemen, with an annual increase of ₹400/w.e.f. 2017 every year in November.
Note: Subject to the condition that application claim case of the orphan children is found in order. Financial Assistance to the orphan children of Exservicemen will be sanctioned with effect from the first day of the following month in which their case for claiming the Financial Assistance is sanctioned.

Eligibility criteria include: The applicant should be a bonafide resident of Haryana.
   The applicant should be an orphan child of an exserviceman.
   The applicant should not be receiving any kind of financial assistance from any department of the Haryana Government.
   The applicant&amp;#39;s age should be below 21 years.
   The applicant should be unmarried.
   The applicant should be unemployed.

Note 1: The definition of ExServicemen for the purpose of the eligibility of grant of Financial Assistance to shall be effective as adopted by the Ministry of Defence Government of India from time to time.
Note 2: Details of orphan children of ESM along with their date of birth as issued by Unit Record Office of the Exservicemen will have to be submitted by the applicant while applying for Financial Assistance.
Note 3: The orphan children of ESM who are in receipt of ordinary family pension from Govt. of India are also eligible for financial assistance under this scheme.
Note 4: Old beneficiaries, (orphan children) whose cases for grant of Financial Assistance have already been sanctioned prior to issue of these guidelines shall continue to get the Financial Assistance at enhanced rates and they need not apply afresh.
Note 5: The payment shall be discontinued with immediate effect to the orphan children on their attaining the age of 21, or till he/she gets employment or till he/she gets married whichever is earlier.
Note 6: Payment of Financial Assistance to those beneficiaries shall be stopped immediately who fail to submit their survival verification proofs once every year from the revenue authorities in the month of April. Secretary, Zila Sainik Board shall be personally responsible for any lapse in this regards.
Note 7: If any beneficiary, after the date of sanction of the Financial Assistance under this scheme is found drawing any type of Financial Assistance from any other Deptt. of Haryana Govt. He/she shall be permanently debarred from getting Financial Assistance under all schemes run by the Rajya and Zila Sainik Boards in Haryana. The application process is as follows: &gt; Registration Process on AntyodayaSARAL Portal:

Step 1: The eligible applicant may apply online through the Official PortalAntyodayaSARAL Portal. 
Step 2: If the applicant is not registered on the portal, he/she gets registered there. 
Step 3: For registration, click “New User” under ‘Sign In Here’ and fill in all the mandatory details i.e. Name, Email ID, Mobile Number, Password &amp;amp; State. Click on ‘Submit’.
Step 4: Verify your mobile number and email ID through the received OTP and complete the registration process.
&gt; Login to apply for the scheme:

Step 1: To avail the benefits of the scheme, visit the Official AntyodayaSARAL Portal and log in through the email ID used while registering.
Step 2: Enter Password &amp;amp; Captcha and click on ‘Login’.
Step 3: After successful login, click on ‘Apply for Services’ and then ‘View all Available Services’
Step 4: Now, you can search for the scheme and click on the scheme to go ahead and fill out the application form.
Step 5: Enter your Parivar Pehchan Patra number Family ID and click on “Click here to Fetch Family Data” which displays the family members registered under the given Family ID.
Step 6: Select the beneficiary/applicant name and enter the OTP that is being sent to the selected family member for verification. Click on “Click to Verify”
Step 7: Fill in all the mandatory details and upload all the mandatory documents.
Step 8: Preview the application form and click on ‘Submit’.
&gt; Tracking of Application:

Applicants can track their applications through the Official AntyodayaSARAL Portal by entering their Department Name, Scheme Name, and Application Reference ID. 
Note: All the applications received by the Zila Sainik Boards shall be scrutinized at the level of Zila Sainik Boards itself and applications so found fit for grant of Financial Assistance will be forwarded with all relevant documents to Rajya Sainik Board with clear recommendation of Secretary, Zila Sainik Board. For more information, please refer to: Scheme Details: https://kms.saralharyana.nic.in/ViewDoc?Id=eyROwv6gwnsvupa++ExhNw%3d%3d Guidelines: https://csharyana.gov.in/WriteReadData/Policies/Defence%20III/2538.pdf Notification: https://csharyana.gov.in/WriteReadData/Instructions/Defence%20III/5781.pdf Antyodaya-SARAL Portal: https://saralharyana.gov.in/ Tags associated with the scheme include: ESM, Ex-Servicemen, Financial Assistance, Orphan, Sainik.