The name of this welfare scheme is National Family Benefit Scheme. It is also known as NFBS. A family welfare scheme under the umbrella scheme ‘National Social Assistance Programme’ (NSAP) by MoRD. In this scheme, financial assistance is provided to the bereaved households in case of the death of the primary breadwinner irrespective of the cause of death. The family benefit will be paid to such surviving member of the household of the deceased poor , who after local inquiry, is found to be the head of the household. The death of such a breadwinner should have occurred whilst he/ she is more than 18 years of age and less than 60 years of age. The scheme targets beneficiaries such as Family. Additionally, the nodal ministry is Ministry Of Rural Development and the nodal department is Department of Rural Development.

The scheme provides the following benefits: ₹ 20000/ will be given as a lump sum assistance to such surviving member of the household of the deceased poor, who after local inquiry, is found to be the head of the household.
The assistance would be given to every case of death of breadwinner in a family.

Eligibility criteria include: The applicant must be a citizen of India.
The family of the applicant must be living Below Poverty Line (BPL).
The primary breadwinner of the applicant&#39;s family must have been deceased.
The age of the deceased breadwinner must have been more than 18 years and less than 60 years.
The applicant must be the succeeding primary breadwinner of the family. The application process is as follows: Step 1: Take a print of the application form given in AnnexureIII (page no. 47) of the scheme guidelines https://nsap.nic.in/Guidelines/nsapguidelinesoctpdf 
(The application forms are available with the District Social Welfare Officer (DSWO) or Tehsil Social Welfare Officer (TSWO) free of cost.) 
Step 2: The duly filledin Application forms along with the required documents are to be submitted to the designated officer appointed by the respective state governments. The applicant has to complete the application form and enclose proof regarding age, income, status, address, and death certificate. Complete case is to be submitted to the concerned TSWO which consolidates the lists and forwards to the Block Level Sanctioning Committee. The cases are then submitted to DSWO for accord of sanction by District level sanctioning committee headed by the Director General, Social Welfare Department. One can download UMANG App or visit website https://web.umang.gov.in/webnew/home The citizen can login using mobile number and OTP.
Once logged In, citizen can search for NSAP.
Click on “Apply Online”
Fill the basic details, choose the mode of payment of pension, upload photo and click on “Submit”. For more information, please refer to: Guidelines: https://nsap.nic.in/Guidelines/nsap_guidelines_oct2014.pdf Tags associated with the scheme include: Below Poverty Line, BPL, Family, Household.