The name of this welfare scheme is Scheme of Extending Family Maintenance Grant to the Families of the Deceased Famous Artists. It is also known as SOEFMGTTFOTDFA. &quot;Scheme of Extending Family Maintenance Grant to the Families of the Deceased Famous Artists&quot; was launched by the Art and Culture Department, Government of Tamil Nadu. The objective of the scheme is to provide a one-time maintenance grant of ₹25,000/- to the families of deceased famous artists of the art disciplines of music, drama, dance, film, and folk arts. The scheme targets beneficiaries such as Family. It is specifically implemented in Tamil Nadu. Additionally, the nodal department is Art and Culture Department.

The scheme provides the following benefits: Financial Assistance of ₹25,000/.

Eligibility criteria include: The deceased should have been a famous artist in the art disciplines of music/ drama/ dance/ film/ folk arts.
The benefit of the scheme will be given only on the death of the famous artist.
The applicant should be the legal heir of the deceased. The application process is as follows: Step 1: The interested applicant should visit (during office hours) the office of the Manram and request the hard copy of the prescribed format of the application form from the staff exclusively entrusted to issue and collect filledin applications.
Step 2: In the application form, fill in all the mandatory fields, and attach copies of all the mandatory documents (selfattest, if required).
Step 3: Submit the duly filled and signed application form along with the documents to the Member Secretary, Tamil Nadu Eyal Isai Nataka Manram, Ponni, 31, P.S. Kumarasamy Raja Salai, Chennai 600 Step 4: Request a receipt or acknowledgement from the concerned authority to whom the application has been submitted. Ensure that the receipt contains essential details such as the date and time of submission, and a unique identification number (if applicable). For more information, please refer to: Guidelines: https://www.tn.gov.in/rti/proactive/inftour/handbook_artculture.pdf Revised Rate: https://artandculture.tn.gov.in/schemes-implemented-tamil-nadu-eyal-isai-nataka-mandram Tags associated with the scheme include: Artist, Culture, Death, Family, Financial Assistance.