The name of this welfare scheme is Shreshtam Scheme For Ensuring Participation Of PwDs In Arts & Sports. It is also known as SSEPPAS. The scheme “Shreshtam Scheme for Ensuring Participation of PwDs in Arts &amp;amp; Sports” was launched by the Department of Social Justice, Government of Kerala. The Government of Kerala has started the scheme to ensure equal opportunities for PwDs in sports and recreation activities equally along with others without discrimination. Under the scheme, support will be provided to persons with disabilities who have showcased special talent and expertise in arts and sporting activities.       
        The objective of the scheme is to ensure access, inclusion, and effective participation of persons with disabilities in the field of arts and sports. This scheme will enable such promising talents to undergo specialized training in State/National Academies/Centres which will help them to increase their potential and competence level. This scheme will encourage and mainstream Persons with Disabilities to accomplish great achievements and help them to be self-sufficient. The scheme targets beneficiaries such as Individual. It is specifically implemented in Kerala. The implementing agency is District Social Justice Office, Kerala. Additionally, the nodal department is Social Justice Department.

The scheme provides the following benefits: Under the scheme, a maximum amount of ₹10,000/will be provided to each beneficiary who has showcased their talents in State/ National level championships.

Note: The amount will be provided to a total of 10 beneficiaries from each district of Kerala.

Eligibility criteria include: The applicant should be a native and resident of Kerala State.
   The participants who have showcased their talents in arts and sporting activities in State/ National level championships will be eligible to apply.
   The applicant should be a Person with Disability (PwD) having 40% or more disability.
   The annual family income of the applicant should be below ₹1,00,000/.
   The applicant should be undergoing training from State/National Academies/Centers. The application process is as follows: Step 01: To avail of the benefits of the scheme, the applicant needs to visit the nearest District Social Justice Office and collect the application form. The application form can also be downloaded from the official website of the Social Justice Department, Government of Kerala.
Step 02: The applicant needs to fill out the application form completely.
Step 03: The duly filled application form along with necessary supporting documents has to be submitted through District Social Justice Office concerned. For more information, please refer to: Official Website: http://sjd.kerala.gov.in/scheme-info.php?scheme_id=MTc3c1Y4dXFSI3Z5 Order/Notice: http://sjd.kerala.gov.in/DOCUMENTS/Order_new/GOs/35498.pdf Application Form: http://sjd.kerala.gov.in/DOCUMENTS/Downloadables/Application%20Forms/35544.pdf Tags associated with the scheme include: Arts, Championship, Disability, Financial Assistance, PwD, Sports, Talent.