The name of this welfare scheme is Unemployment Allowance for the Educated Unemployed Youth Scheme. It is also known as UAEUYS. The scheme “Unemployment Allowance for the Educated Unemployed Youth Scheme” is implemented by the Directorate of Employment, Government of Haryana. The scheme was introduced on 01.11.1988 which provides monthly unemployment allowance to the educated unemployed youth registered with the Employment Exchanges in Haryana. Applicants who have passed the 10+2 examination or hold a 2-year certificate/diploma course after Matric receive ₹900/- per month. Those with a Graduate degree or above, or who have completed a 3-year certificate/diploma course after the 10+2 examination, receive ₹1,500/- per month. The scheme supports educated youth in their job search and reduces financial stress during unemployment. The scheme targets beneficiaries such as Individual. It is specifically implemented in Haryana. The implementing agency is Directorate Of Employment, Government Of Haryana. Additionally, the nodal department is Employment Department.

The scheme provides the following benefits: Sl. No.QualificationRate of Unemployment Allowance110+2 or equivalent₹900/per month2Graduates/Post Graduates or equivalent₹1,500/per month

Eligibility criteria include: The applicant should be domicile of Haryana.
   Applicants are eligible if they have passed the 10+2 examination, completed a 2year certificate/diploma after Matric from a Haryanarecognized Board/University, hold a Graduate degree or higher, or completed a 3year certificate/diploma or above after the 10+2 examination.
   The applicant should be registered with any Employment Exchange in the State continuously for a minimum period of 3 years or more as on 1st November of each year.
   The annual family income from all sources including that of the spouse should not exceed ₹3,00,000/or the family should not have residential or commercial property exceeding ₹00 Lakhs in value or agriculture land in excess of 2 hectares.
   The applicant should be in the age group of 2135 years.
   The applicant should not be a student/trainee/apprentice.
   The applicant should not be employed/selfemployed.
   The applicant should not be a dismissed Government employee.
   The applicant should not have been convicted of any offense resulting in imprisonment for a period of six months or more.
   The applicant should not be registered in the Saksham Yuva Scheme of the Employment Department.

Note:

  “Family” means a group of individuals who share ties of blood, marriage, or adoption; a group residing together and consisting of parents, children, and other relatives by blood or marriage; a group of individuals residing together who have consented to an arrangement similar to ties of blood or marriage.
  “Family Income” means the gross annual income of the family where the eligible applicant is associated as a family member.
  In case of a married female, inLaws ration card is mandatory (Joint and Separate). The application process is as follows: &gt; Registration Process on AntyodayaSARAL Portal:

Step 01: The eligible applicant may apply online through the Official PortalAntyodayaSARAL Portal. https://saralharyana.gov.in/
Step 02: If the applicant is not registered on the portal, he/she gets registered there. 
Step 03: For registration, click “New User” under ‘Sign In Here’ and fill in all the mandatory details i.e. Name, Email ID, Mobile Number, Password &amp;amp; State. Click on ‘Submit’.
Step 04: Verify your mobile number and email ID through the received OTP and complete the registration process.
&gt; Login to apply for the scheme:

Step 01: To avail the benefits of the scheme, visit the Official AntyodayaSARAL Portal and log in through the email ID used while registering.
Step 02: Enter Password &amp;amp; Captcha and click on ‘Login’.
Step 03: After successful login, click on ‘Apply for Services’ and then ‘View all Available Services’
Step 04: Now, you can search for the scheme and click on the scheme to go ahead and fill out the application form.
Step 05: Enter your Parivar Pehchan Patra number Family ID and click on “Click here to Fetch Family Data” which displays the family members registered under the given Family ID.
Step 06: Select the beneficiary/applicant name and enter the OTP that is being sent to the selected family member for verification. Click on “Click to Verify”
Step 07: Fill in all the mandatory details and upload all the mandatory documents.
Step 08: Preview the application form and click on ‘Submit’.
&gt; Tracking of Application:

Applicants can track his/her application through the Official AntyodayaSARAL Portal by entering their Department Name, Scheme Name, and Application Reference ID. For more information, please refer to: Scheme Details: https://kms.saralharyana.nic.in/ViewDoc?Id=KXYoviRrojd%2f9dnRCXLfVw%3d%3d Official Website: https://hrex.gov.in/ Registration Link: https://hrex.gov.in/#/register Tags associated with the scheme include: Allowance, Educated Unemployed Youth, Financial Assistance, Unemployment.