The name of this welfare scheme is Development of Strawberry Cultivation. It is also known as DSC. The scheme “Development of Strawberry Cultivation” was launched by the Department of Agriculture &amp;amp; Farmers’ Welfare, Government of Meghalaya to provide farmers with quality and improved varieties of strawberry planting materials so as to encourage area expansion under this crop such that commercialization horticulture under this crop is achieved. The scheme targets beneficiaries such as Individual. It is specifically implemented in Meghalaya. The implementing agency is Department Of Agriculture & Farmers’ Welfare, Government Of Meghalaya. Additionally, the nodal department is Agriculture Department.

The scheme provides the following benefits: > Pattern of Assistance:

Assistance to the selected governmentrun farm and also a scale of 50% subsidies to the strawberry spokes.
Type of Assistance and Entitlement (If any):
Sl. No.EntitlementOwantum of Assistance1To promote the production of strawberry fruits by purchasing good quality materials of strawberry runners.100% assistance to the selected beneficiaries.2 Purchase of mulching for demonstration.100% assistance.3Purchase of drip irrigation sprayers.100% assistance.

Eligibility criteria include: The applicant should be a permanent resident of Meghalaya.
   The applicant should be a bonafide farmer engaged in agriculture, possessing own or leased land of at least 200 sqms.

Note: The applicant farmer can avail of the benefits of the scheme on a first come first serve basis. The application process is as follows: &gt; Application Process:

Step 01: The eligible bonafide farmer can apply/write an application on plain paper.
Step 02: Along with the application, attach copies of all the mandatory documents (selfattest, if required).
Step 03: Submit the duly filled and signed application along with the required documents at the nearest office of the Horticulture Development Officer of a CD Block/ Horticulture Circle.
&gt; Mode of Selection of Beneficiary(s):

The bonafide farmers shall be selected on a first come first serve basis.
&gt; Whom to Contact:


   District Horticulture Officer   Sectoral Officer, Department of Horticulture
   Horticulture Development Officer For more information, please refer to: Official Website: https://megagriculture.gov.in/PUBLIC/schemes_ShowSchemesH.aspx?schid=118 Tags associated with the scheme include: Agriculture, Farmer, Horticulture, Strawberry Cultivation.