The name of this welfare scheme is “RAKSHAK PURASKARS’’ Award. It is also known as RPA. The Directorate of Women and Child Development, Government of Goa, has instituted the “RAKSHAK PURASKARS” Award. The awards are being conferred from the year 2015 onwards and presented on Independence Day i.e. 15th August. The awards are conferred to two persons every year. The awards are conferred to the individuals who have shown exceptional courage, especially in adverse circumstances in coming to aid, protecting or helping beyond the call of duty and assisting in dealing with the victims of any type of violence, attack or harassment against women and girls at home, in the workplace and everywhere in the public domain and has shown their respect and dignity to women in society within the State of Goa. The Award aims to spread the message to encourage and motivate all to bestow respect and dignity to women in society in the State of Goa. The scheme targets beneficiaries such as Individual. It is specifically implemented in Goa. Additionally, the nodal department is Women and Child Development Department.

The scheme provides the following benefits: The recipients of the awarded are given a scroll/citation and cash prize of ₹ 20,000/each.

Eligibility criteria include: The applicant should have shown exceptional courage, especially in adverse circumstances or otherwise in coming to aid, protecting or helping beyond the call of duty, the victims or in dealing with the victims of any type of violence, attack, or harassment against women and girls at home, in the workplace and everywhere in the public domain and has shown their respect and dignity to women in society in the State of Goa.
The applicant can be a person from any walk of life, whether they are Police Officers, Doctors, Lawyers, Public Prosecutors, Social Workers, Teachers, Tourist Guides, Lifeguards, Bus, Taxi or Auto Drivers, etc.
The applicant should have a resident of Goa for the last 05 yrs as of 1st January of the respective year OR has worked in the State for at least two years shall be considered.
The applicant should not be a recipient of any other award in the same field during the same year.
The applicant should be above 25 years of age as of 1st January of the respective year. The application process is as follows: Step 1: In the prescribed format of the application form, fill in all the mandatory fields, paste the passportsized photograph (signed across), and attach copies of all the mandatory documents (selfattest if required).
Step 2: Visit the Office of the Directorate of Women &amp; Child Development (Old Education Building, 2nd Floor, 18th June Road, Panaji Goa 403001), and submit the duly filled and signed application form along with the copies of the required documents to the Concerned Officer.
Step 3: Acquire the receipt/acknowledgement of the successful submission of the application.


> Helpdesk

For any clarifications regarding the application, the applicants may contact the Directorate on Phone No. 2235308/2426112 during office hours. For more information, please refer to: Guidelines And Application Form: https://www.dwcd.goa.gov.in/wp-content/uploads/2020/05/RAKSHAK-PURASKAR-PRESS-NOTE-AND-APPLICATION-FORM.pdf Tags associated with the scheme include: Award, Crime, Girl, Harrassment, Violence, Women.