The name of this welfare scheme is Marriage Assistance To Daughters Of Prisoners. It is also known as MADP. The scheme “Marriage Assistance to Daughters of Prisoners” was launched by the Department of Social Justice, Government of Kerala. The Government of Kerala has implemented this scheme which provides financial assistance for the marriage of the daughters of those who have been undergoing imprisonment for more than 2 years. The maximum amount of financial assistance will be ₹30,000/- per person, during the first phase of the scheme as many as 20 such families will be assisted. 
       When a person commits a crime and gets sentenced to imprisonment, his family is vulnerable to financial instability, poverty, debt, and potential housing disruption. They often get stigmatized and marginalized in society following the incarceration of a family member. Due to the poor financial conditions, the family members find it difficult to ensure proper education for their children and marry off their daughters. Therefore, the Government of Kerala has implemented this scheme for the upliftment of such a target population. The scheme targets beneficiaries such as Family, Individual. It is specifically implemented in Kerala. The implementing agency is District Probation Office, Kerala. Additionally, the nodal department is Social Justice Department.

The scheme provides the following benefits: Under the scheme, the maximum amount of financial assistance will be ₹30,000/per person.

Eligibility criteria include: The applicant should be a native and resident of Kerala State.
   The applicants must belong to Below Poverty Line (BPL) category.
   Either the father or the mother should be undergoing imprisonment for more than two years.

Note 01: The application must be submitted after six months of marriage and within one year period. 
Note 02: A maximum of two girls from a family can get financial assistance for marriage.
Note 03: Once the marriage grant has been sanctioned, if the existing marriage is dissolved and remarried for any reason, the grant will not be eligible. The application process is as follows: Registration Process:
Step 01: To avail of the benefits of the scheme, the applicant needs to visit SUNEETHIOnline Service Application Portal
Step 02: On the home page, click on “One time Registration”
Step 03: Fill in the details like Name, Email ID &amp;amp; Mobile Number and click on ‘Register’.
Step 04: The applicant needs to enter the verification code received on the mobile number and click on ‘Verify’.
Step 05: Now, a form will open to create the new profile, fill in all the mandatory details and click on ‘Register’.
Login/Application Process: 
Step 01: Once the registration process is completed, the applicant should visit SUNEETHIOnline Service Application Portal and click on “Citizen Login”.
Step 02: Enter the user name i.e. Mobile Number and Password and click on “Sign in”.
Step 03: Now, the applicant needs to update all their details i.e. Personal Information, Contact Details, Identity Cards &amp;amp; Bank Details by clicking on the &amp;#39;Edit&amp;#39; button.
Step 04: Once the applicant updated their profile successfully, the schemes will appear on the left side of the screen.
Step 05: Select the scheme and click on the “Apply Now” button.
Step 06: Fill in all the mandatory details in the application form and click on the ‘Submit’ button.
Note: The application must be submitted after six months of marriage and within one year period. Step 01: To avail of the benefits of the scheme, the applicant needs to visit the official website of the Social Justice Department, Government of Kerala to download the application form.
Step 02: The applicant needs to fill out the application form completely.
Step 03: The duly filled application form along with supporting documents has to be submitted through the concerned Jail Superintendents / Probation Officers.
Step 04: Jail Superintendents / Probation Officers should consider the applications and submit them to the Director of Social Justice with recommendations.
Step 05: Financial assistance will be handed over to the father, mother, or daughter based on the report submitted by the District Probation Officer.
Step 06: The amount will be transferred to the respective person’s bank account.
Note: The application must be submitted after six months of marriage and within one year period. For more information, please refer to: Official Website: http://sjd.kerala.gov.in/scheme-info.php?scheme_id=MTY4c1Y4dXFSI3Z5 Application Form: http://sjd.kerala.gov.in/DOCUMENTS/Downloadables/Application%20Forms/31138.pdf Order/Notice: http://sjd.kerala.gov.in/DOCUMENTS/Order_new/GOs/31137.pdf Tags associated with the scheme include: BPL, Daughter, Financial Assistance, Marriage, Prisoner.