The name of this welfare scheme is Mukhyamantri Mahalaxmi Kit Yojana. It is also known as MMKYU. Launched by the Department of Women Empowerment and Child Development in Uttarakhand, the &amp;quot;Mukhyamantri Mahalaxmi Kit Yojana&amp;quot; is a social security scheme offering a helping hand to new mothers and their daughters.  This initiative specifically targets mothers with a family income below a certain limit. By providing essential nutritional kits, the program aims to improve the health and well-being of both mothers and their newborn daughters during the crucial postpartum period.  These kits aren&amp;#39;t just filled with good food; they also contain necessary items to ensure proper care for both the mother and child.  Ultimately, the Mukhyamantri Mahalaxmi Kit Yojana aspires to not only support the health of mothers and daughters but also potentially bridge the nutritional gap and promote gender equality. The scheme targets beneficiaries such as Individual. It is specifically implemented in Uttarakhand. Additionally, the nodal department is Department Of Woman Empowerment & Child Development.

The scheme provides the following benefits: For Mothers: Dry fruits, socks, scarp towels, shawls, blankets, bedsheets, sanitary pads, mustard oil, soap, nail cutters etcFor the girl child: Cotton/warm cap, sock, loincloth, towel, baby soap, rubber sheet, warm blanket, vaccination card etc.
Note: Each kit will be provided to the mother and their first two girl children. For twins, both daughters and their mother will get one kit.

Eligibility criteria include: > For Mother:


Beneficiary should be a permanent resident of Uttarakhand.
Beneficiary should be a postpartum woman.
Beneficiary should not be an income tax payer.
Beneficiary should be registered in any Anganwadi centre.



> For Daughter:


Beneficiary should be the first or second daughter of her mother. The application process is as follows: Step1: Concerned parents should visit  their nearest Anganwadi Centre.
Step2: Provide all the necessary documents as directed (attested, if required).
Step3: After the completion of the procedure benefits can be availed from the Anganwadi Centre. For more information, please refer to: Guidelines: https://agriculture.uk.gov.in/files/MERI_YOJANA_book_pdf__04-12-23.pdf Tags associated with the scheme include: Girl Child, Health, Mother, Nutrition, Women.