The name of this welfare scheme is Tea Development and Promotion Scheme (TDPS): Plantation Development for Small Tea Growers (PDSTG): Mechanization for Individual Small Growers. It is also known as TDPS:PDSTG:MISG. The Government of India has conveyed its approval for the Tea Board’s Scheme “Tea Development &amp;amp; Promotion Scheme” for implementation during the 15th Finance Commission (2021-26). The scheme has seven major components covering the broad areas of the Tea Board’s operation for the overall protection, growth &amp;amp; sustenance of the Indian Tea Industry.
&lt;br&gt;

The objective of the scheme is to improve the production, productivity, and quality of Indian teas in order to remain competitive in global markets, focus on the development of the small tea growers, their collectivization for moving up in the value chain, value addition in teas for better price realization and share in export markets, explore the potential of tea grown in the North Eastern States, focus on improving the per capita consumption of tea, improving tea exports from India to high-value markets, encouraging research and development and other technological innovation to bring transparency in the entire supply chain as envisaged in the Tea Act, 1953.
&lt;br&gt;

&gt; &amp;quot;Plantation Development for Small Tea Growers (PDSTG)&amp;quot; Component of the TDPS

The objective of this component is to increase the production, productivity and quality of tea, overall development of small tea growers to help them move up in the value chain, sustainability of production by promoting organic tea cultivation&amp;amp; climate resilient tea and to make them self-reliant by setting up their own processing units. The scheme targets beneficiaries such as Individual. Additionally, the nodal ministry is Ministry Of Commerce And Industry and the nodal department is Department Of Commerce.

The scheme provides the following benefits: > Equipment and Scale of Assistance 


Equipment: Pruning Machine; Ceiling Limit (₹): 30,000; Other Eligibility: One (1) Machine for each / upto 00 ha of tea areaEquipment: Mechanical Harvester; Ceiling Limit (₹): Single Man Harvester @ 25,000; Double Man Harvester @ 40,000; Other Eligibility: For each / up to 00 ha of tea areaEquipment: Power Sprayer; Ceiling Limit (₹): 15,000; Other Eligibility: For each / up to 00 ha of tea areaEquipment: Brush Cutter; Ceiling Limit (₹): 28,000; Other Eligibility: For each / up to 00 ha of tea areaEquipment: Plucking Shear; Ceiling Limit (₹): 550; Other Eligibility: For each/ up to 40 Ha of tea area


> Mode of Payment

All payments will be through electronic mode i.e., RTGS/NEFT/PFMS.

Eligibility criteria include: The applicants can be small tea growers including members of selfhelp groups and Farmers&#39; Producer Organizations. The application process is as follows: > Step 1: Registration


Visit the official portal of the Tea Board.To create an account, click on the &quot;Register&quot; or &quot;Sign Up&quot; button. You&#39;ll be asked to provide information such as Name, date of birth, Gender, Mobile Number and Email Address.
Choose a username and password. Ensure the password meets security requirements.
After providing your details, you will receive a OneTime Password (OTP) on your registered mobile number and email. Enter the OTP to verify your identity.



> Step 3: Application


Use the credentials you created during registration to log in. Once logged in, you&#39;ll access your user dashboard. Navigate to the Online Application Form of the Scheme. In the application form, fill in all the mandatory fields and upload the necessary documents.
Carefully review all the information provided and the documents uploaded. Make any necessary corrections.
Acknowledge and agree to the terms and conditions, declaration, and privacy policy.
Click the &quot;Submit&quot; button to send your application. After the successful submission of the application, an acknowledgement will be generated by the system.



> Step 4: Check Application Status


You can track your application status on your dashboard using the Application Reference ID.
The portal may provide updates via email or SMS regarding your application status.



NOTE: Only one application under each component will be considered, however, the applicant may apply for more than one activity in a single application as per the eligibility.


Application Fee
All the applications shall be accompanied by a nonrefundable application fee of ₹ 100/(Rupees one hundred only) + GST (Exempted for SC, ST, female and differentlyabled persons). No application will be accepted without payment of application fees except for exempted stakeholders. The physical receipt of the application in the field offices (ZO/ROs/SROs/HQ) will be permitted by the Competent Authority till such time the online platform is not ready. The Competent Authority at its discretion may accept the physical submission of the application till such time the online platform is not ready for the use of stakeholders. 


All the applications shall be accompanied by a nonrefundable application fee of ₹ 100/(Rupees one hundred only) + GST (Exempted for SC, ST, female and differentlyabled persons). No application will be accepted without payment of application fees except for exempted stakeholders. For more information, please refer to: Guidelines: https://www.teaboard.gov.in/pdf/Approved_modalitites_Guidelines_pdf4268.pdf Tags associated with the scheme include: Agriculture, Farmer, Plantation, Subsidy, Tea.