The name of this welfare scheme is Babu Jagjivan Ram Chhatrawas Yojna. It is also known as BJRCY. Background:
This scheme for the construction of hostels is one of the means to enable and encourage students belonging to Scheduled Castes (SC) to attain quality education. Such hostels are immensely beneficial to the students hailing from rural and remote areas of the country. While the scheme of construction of hostels for SC girls is in operation from the Third Five Year Plan (1961-66), the same for boys was started with effect from the year 1989-90.


Objectives of The Scheme:
The primary objective of the revised scheme is to attract implementing agencies for undertaking the construction of hostels, especially for SC girls, towards the broader vision of containment and reduction of their dropout rate. The other objectives are:
(i) having a girls/boys hostel with a capacity of 100 seats, in every block headquarters of low literacy districts not having one as of now, by way of priority.
(ii) repairing and proper maintenance of hostels, and 
(iii) having an effective mechanism for monitoring, review, etc.


Implementing Agencies:
The scheme is implemented through the State Governments, Union Territory Administrations, and Central &amp; State Universities/ Institutions. The scheme targets beneficiaries such as Individual. The implementing agency is State Governments, Union Territory Administrations, And Central & State Universities/ Institutions. Additionally, the nodal ministry is Ministry Of Social Justice and Empowerment and the nodal department is Department of Social Justice & Empowerment.

It falls under the categories: Housing & Shelter.

Eligibility criteria include: Eligibility for the Hostels:
While sanctioning hostels, priority may be given to areas having a concentration of SC population of 15% and more, and without adequate hostel facilities for SC students. Preference will be given to integrated hostels (part of established educational institutions) over standalone hostels.
State Governments, while selecting schools for the construction of hostels will give priority to topperforming Government schools that not having any hostels at present.
In the case of girls, the hostels will be located in areas having low SC female literacy. The girl&#39;s hostels will be constructed in close vicinity of the educational institution.
The focus will be given to the construction of hostels for middle and higher secondary levels of education. However, hostels can also be constructed under the scheme for college and university levels of education.
The construction of boundary walls, two rooms set quarter for hostel wardens, and one room set for Chowkidars/ Lady Guards would be an integral part of the scheme.


Eligibility for the Implementing Agencies:
The scheme is implemented through the State Governments, Union Territory Administrations, and Central &amp; State Universities/ Institutions. For more information, please refer to: Guidelines: https://socialjustice.gov.in/writereaddata/UploadFile/BJRCY_revised2020_Eng.pdf Tags associated with the scheme include: Hostel, Student.