The name of this welfare scheme is Relief and Rehabilitation Assistance to Sri Lankan Refugees in the Refugee Camps. It is also known as RRASLRRC. On 4th July 2018, the Government of India approved clubbing eight schemes under the Umbrella Scheme “Relief and Rehabilitation of 
Migrants and Repatriates”. Out of the 8 schemes, the scheme &amp;quot;Relief and Rehabilitation Assistance to Sri Lankan Refugees in the Refugee Camps&amp;quot; is implemented by the Freedom Fighters &amp;amp; Rehabilitation Division of the Department of Home, Ministry of Home Affairs.
The scheme provides relief materials, which among other things include Feeding Charges, Subsidized Rice, Clothing Materials, Utensils, Transportation Charges (on arrival), Porterage and Transport (on repatriation), Cash Doles, Infrastructure Facilities (at the camps), Electricity and Drinking Water, Vehicles and Petrol to the Sri Lankan Refugees. 
The entire expenditure is incurred by the State Government and is subsequently reimbursed by GoI. GoI&amp;#39;s approach is to grant relief on humanitarian grounds with the ultimate objective of repatriating them back to Sri Lanka. Relief is given pending such repatriation. An amount of ₹ 1,226 crore (approximately) has been spent by GoI for providing relief and accommodation to these refugees during the period between July 1983 to March 2022. The scheme targets beneficiaries such as Individual, Family. Additionally, the nodal ministry is Ministry Of Home Affairs.

The scheme provides the following benefits: > (a) Food for Temporary Stay in Different Camps


In Quarantine Camp refugees are provided cooked food @ ₹ 45/per day per adult, and @ ₹ 30/per day per child. 
Refugees in Special Camps are provided cooked food @ ₹ 70/per day per adult. 
Clothing material is also provided.



> (b) Rice at a Subsidized Rate: 


Family Members: 01 Adults; Age: Above 8 years; Quantity of Rice: 400 grams daily
Family Members: 02 Children; Age: Below 8 years; Quantity of Rice: 200 grams daily



> (c) Free Clothing Materials


Gender: Male; Category: Adult; Items: Dhoti (2); Vests (2)
Gender: Male; Category: Child; Items: Half Trousers (2); Inner Garments (Vests) (1); Half Sleeve Shirt (1)
Gender: Female; Category: Adult; Items: Sari (2); Blouse (2); Skirt (1)
Gender: Female; Category: Child; Items: Skirt (1); Blouse (1); Frock/Gown (1)
Category: Every Family; Items: Towels (2)
Category: Every Adult; Items: Mat (1)
Category: Every Adult (Once in 2 years); Items: Blanket (1)



NOTE: The abovelisted materials are provided every year to all the refugees/refugee families in the camps free of cost except the blankets which are given once in two years.


> (d) Aluminum Utensils


Rice boiling utensils (5 ltr. Capacity ): 1 
Sambar, Curry Utensils (2 ltr. Capacity): 1 
Large spoon: 2; Dining Plates: 2; Tumblers: 2

> (e) Transportation Charges (on arrival) as per Approved Rates. 



> (f) Porterage &amp; Transport (on repatriation) as per Approved Rates. 



> (g) Medical Assistance 


Refugees are given health checkups &amp; assistance upon arrival in Transit Camp.
Medical assistance is rendered by Primary Health Centres/Government Hospitals (in Refugee Camps by the Government of Tamil Nadu).
After an appropriate medical checkup, preventive medicine like inoculation for measles is administered, free of cost.



> (h) Cash Dole Assistance to Sri Lankan Refugees in Camps


Family Members: Head of the Family; Cash doles at Present (₹): 00
Family Members: Other Adults; Cash doles at Present (₹): 00
Family Members: First Child; Cash doles at Present (₹): 00
Family Members: Other Children; Cash doles at Present (₹): 00



> (i) Infrastructure Facilities at the Camps including Internal Roads, Electricity and Drinking Water.

Temporary huts were constructed and remodelled to the size of 10x10 sq feet with the provision of basic amenities.


> (j) Vehicles and Petrol 

Four vehicles have been approved by MHA from time to time. 
Expenditure on petrol for these vehicles is also reimbursed by MHA.


> (k) Exit Permits

The refugees, who are willing to go back to Sri Lanka or to any other country of their choice at their own cost, are issued with &quot;Exit Permits&quot; by the respective District Collectors. 


> (l) Cooked Food

While the refugees are in the quarantine camps under the supervision of the police department, cooked food is provided to the refugees every day (three times) at the rate of Rs 45/per adult per day and Rs 30/per child per day.


> (m) Security

MultiColour Identity Cards are issued to every refugee above the age of 12 years to ensure their welfare and security.


> (n) Pregnancy Care


Pregnant Sri Lankan Tamil women are given Rs.1,000/per month during the eighth, ninth and tenth months of pregnancy and for the first three months after the delivery, totalling Rs. 6,000/under Dr Muthulakshmi Reddy Maternity Financial Assistance Scheme of the Government of Tamil Nadu.
When the Sri Lankan Tamil refugee women are pregnant, they are administered tetanus injections by the nurses from the concerned Primary Health Centers (PHCs), after appropriate medical checkups. 
Required medical counselling is provided to pregnant women every month, after appropriate medical checkups. 
Pregnant women are provided with required vitamin tablets, milk, fruits and bread under the Integrated Child Development Scheme (ICDS). 
Pregnant mothers can be admitted to the nearby PHC or hospital, free of cost, for child delivery. 
Following child delivery, the child’s birth certificate can be obtained through the hospital. 
Following the birth of a child, the details are furnished to the Village Administrative Officer and Special Revenue Inspector to record the same in the family card through which they can receive the cash doles immediately.
Following the birth of a child, the nurses of the PHCs should continue to monitor the growth of the child and the mother’s health. 
The required nutritious food, vitamin tablets, milk, and fruits are given free of cost under the ICDS. 
Timely administration of polio drops, free of cost, to children is provided. 



> (o) Education

The refugee students studying upto 12th class in Government and GovernmentAided schools are given free education, free notebooks, textbooks, free uniforms, free noon meals and a free bus pass to commute from the camp to the school. Students studying 11th class are given free bicycles.


> (p) Employment

With a view to facilitating the refugees to earn their livelihood, they are permitted to leave the camps between 00 a.m. and 00 p.m. in search of jobs commensurate with their skills /qualifications (subject to the laws in force in this regard).

Eligibility criteria include: The applicant should be a citizen of Sri Lanka.
The applicant should be a victim of the upsurge of ethnic violence in Sri Lanka. The application process is as follows: Step 1: The officials of police and intelligence departments conduct enquiries at the Quarantine camp with newly arriving refugees. 
Step 2: After ensuring that they do not belong to any militant groups/movements, they are permitted to stay in the regular camps. If it is known that they are associates of militant movements, it is then recommended to lodge them in the special camps.
&lt;br&gt;

&gt; NonCamp Registration

If the refugees who come by air, seek permission from the Director of Rehabilitation to stay with their relatives, are referred by the Director of Rehabilitation to the police officer of the area in which they wish to stay, to register them. 
NOTE: This category of Sri Lankan nationals will not be provided with any of the relief assistance that is provided to the refugees living in the camps.
&lt;br&gt;

&gt; Camp Admission

All the details of those who are cleared at the Quarantine camp for admission to regular camps are recorded in the computer and registered at the camp. The refugees are photographed and issued family identity cards. The benefits are provided immediately to run a family along with a dwelling unit. For more information, please refer to: Guidelines: https://www.mha.gov.in/sites/default/files/RW-SL-1011.pdf Information Handbook: https://www.tn.gov.in/rti/proactive/public/handbook_rehabilitation.pdf Scheme Extended Till 2025-26: https://www.mha.gov.in/sites/default/files/2022-11/ReliefandRehabofMigrants_02032022%5B1%5D.pdf Annual Report Of MoHA: https://www.mha.gov.in/sites/default/files/AnnualReport202122_24112022%5B1%5D.pdf Tags associated with the scheme include: Food, Refugee, Rehabilitation, Security, Shelter.