The name of this welfare scheme is Awasiya Vidyala Yojana. It is also known as AVY. It is often seen that children of construction workers stay with their parents at the work site. Due to poverty and lack of resources of the parents, such children are not able to take admission in any school or are not able to continue their education after taking admission.
Realizing the need to start residential schools for such children of construction workers, a residential school scheme has been proposed. The objective of the scheme is to provide quality education to the children of registered construction workers in the age group of 6 to 14 years by providing them the facilities of primary, junior high school and secondary education.
&lt;br&gt;

Scope of the plan:
Initially, residential school scheme will be operated in districts Etawah, Bhadohi, Kannauj, Moradabad, Firozabad, Lalitpur, Bahraich, Ghaziabad, Kanpur, Azamgarh, Agra and Meerut. Later, based on the experiences and needs gained, this scheme will be expanded to other districts. The scheme targets beneficiaries such as Individual. It is specifically implemented in Uttar Pradesh. Additionally, the nodal department is Labour Department, Uttar Pradesh.

The scheme provides the following benefits: Free residential education for all registered construction workers&#39; sons/daughters.
Free accommodation, clothing, food and other facilities available.

Eligibility criteria include: Parent must be registered construction workers.
Child must be fall within the range of 6 to 14 years. The application process is as follows: > How to get register and apply for the scheme


Applicant must visit the below offices

  Nearest labor office.
  Tehsildar of the concerned tehsil.
  Block Development Officer of the concerned development block.

Get the application form and fill out the completely.
Attach required documents in the prescribed format.
Submit the application form in the same office. For more information, please refer to: Guideline: https://www.upbocw.in/pdf/adhisuchna/awasiye%20vidyalay.pdf Detail: https://www.upbocw.in/StaticPages/schemes.aspx#tab4 Tags associated with the scheme include: Education, Social Welfare.