The name of this welfare scheme is Namo Shetkari Mahasanman Nidhi Yojana. It is also known as NAMO SHETKARI MAHASANMAN NIDHI YOJANA. •	Under this scheme an amount of Rs. 6000/- will be transferred annually in three equal instalments
•	Government Resolution No Kisani-2023/CR 42/11 A dated 15/06/2023 has been issued regarding the scheme. 
•	Farmers which are eligible for PM Kisan Yojana will be eligible for the benefit of &quot;Namo Shetkari Mahasanman Nidhi Yojana&quot; The scheme targets beneficiaries such as Individual. It is specifically implemented in Maharashtra. The implementing agency is Commissionerate Of Agriculture. Additionally, the nodal department is Agriculture Department.

The scheme provides the following benefits: 1) Eligible Farmers families as per PM KISAN will be Benefited Rs. 2000/per Instalment.
2) The beneficiaries benefited in PM KISAN will get the benefit of NSMNY.
3) The NSMNY beneficiaries will be benefited from the list provided by GoI.
4) First instalment of NSMNY is given as per the list of 14th instalment of PMKISAN.
5) Eligible farmers family will get Rs. 2000/from PMKISAN &amp; NSMNY at each instalment.
6) Eligible farmers will get Rs. 12,000/in a year from both PM KISAN &amp; NSMNY schems.
7) Farmers will be benefited through DBT.
8) The benefit of the NSMNY will be credited only in Aadhar linked bank accounts.
9) The benefit credited to the ineligibles in NSMNY will be recovered as per the SoP of PMKISAN

Eligibility criteria include: Cultivable land holding farmers families (comprising of husband, wife and minor children) having land holding on dated 2019 are eligible for both PM KISAN &amp; NSMNY scheme. The application process is as follows: Step 01: Self Registration on PMKISAN Portal
Step 02: Verification of eligibility of registered beneficiary.
Step 03: Approval at Taluka Nodal Officer level.
Step 04: Approval at District Nodal Officer level.
Step 05: Final Approval at State Nodal Officer level.
Note : No need of approval at district and state level in case of direct registration at TNO login. For more information, please refer to: Guidelines: https://fw.pmkisan.gov.in/Documents/RevisedPM-KISANOperationalGuidelines(English).pdf Online Link: http://nsmny.mahait.org/ Tags associated with the scheme include: Agriculture Land Holder, Direct Benefit Transfer, Family Scheme, PM KISAN TOP UP.