The name of this welfare scheme is Mukhyamantri Samuhik Vivah Yojana. It is also known as MSVY. Detailed 

1. In order to promote communal and social harmony, state government has started “Mass Wedding Scheme since October, 2017.
1.  Under this scheme wedding programs are conducted according to the rituals being practiced in various communities and religions. Another objective of the scheme is to abolish the unwanted and extravagance in wedding ceremonies.
1. Families of all communities having annual income of Rs. 2,00,000/- from all sources are covered under this scheme.
1. Under this scheme, an amount of Rs. 35,000/- is deposited in the bank account of bride for establishment of household and required material for wedding like apparels, ornaments, utensils etc. are provided to the couple from Rs. 10,000/- . Apart from it, Rs. 6000/- are provisioned to expense on per marriage. Thus a total amount of Rs. 51,000/- is provisioned for per marriage.
1. Registration and wedding of minimum 10 couples, mass wedding organization has been arranged at urban bodies (Nagar Panchayat, Municipal Committee, Municipal Corporation) Area Panchayat, Zila Panchayat level. The scheme targets beneficiaries such as Individual. It is specifically implemented in Uttar Pradesh. Additionally, the nodal department is Department of Social Welfare.

It falls under the categories: Social welfare & Empowerment.

Eligibility criteria include: Eligibility 

The applicant must be a permanent resident of the State.
Family income from all sources should be within Rs.2,00,000  per annum.
This scheme is open to all communities.
The age of the registered girl should be 18 years or more and the age of the groom should be at least 21 years.
At least 10 couples are required to participate in this Mass Marriage Ceremony. For more information, please refer to: Guideline: http://samajkalyan.up.gov.in/#parentHorizontalTab1 Tags associated with the scheme include: Financial Assistance, Samuhik Vivah, Uttar Pradesh.