The name of this welfare scheme is Tuition Fees And Examination Fees To Vjnt Students. It is also known as Tfefvs. The Government of Maharashtra launched a scheme namely &quot;Tuition fees and examination fees to Vimukta Jati and Nomadic Tribes (VJNT) students.
Scheme Objective
Under the scheme, 

1. Tuition Fees, 
1. Admission Fees
1. Term Fees
1. Library Fees
1. Laboratory Fees
1. Gymkhana Fees, and
1. Examination Fees 

All the students belonging to V.J. and N.T. are being reimbursed for the payment of these mentioned 7 fees at Post Matriculation Education in recognized educational institutions. Students with one failure and those not covered under the Government of India Scholarship are also held eligible for such reimbursement. The scheme targets beneficiaries such as Individual. It is specifically implemented in Maharashtra. Additionally, the nodal department is Social Justice and Special Assistance Department.

The scheme provides the following benefits: All types of compulsory fees such as Tuition fees, and Exams. Fees &amp; other fees are reimbursed to the concerned college/institution.

Eligibility criteria include: He should belong to the Vimukta Jatis &amp; Nomadic Tribes(VJNT) category.
Reimbursement will be sanctioned to the students, whose parents&#39; income is between ₹ 1,00,000 to ₹ 4,50, The application process is as follows: Step 1: Visit the official website to register yourself by clicking on “New Applicant registration” and fill in all the mandatory details (Applicant’s Name, Username, Password, Email, and Mobile Number)
Step 2: Now, you may Login by filling Login details.
Step 3: Create your profile by filling in all your updated personal details like address, qualifications, etc.
Step 4: After filling in 100% of the profile information, you may apply for the eligible schemes.
Scrutiny concerned college should forward his application to the concerned Asstt. Commissioner Social Welfare for sanction.


Note: Online application is to be filled out for the first year of that course only. From Ian year to the completion of the course, the application is renewed by the concerned college and forwarded to the concerned Asstt. Comm. Social Welfare for sanction. For more information, please refer to: Guidelines: https://sjsa.maharashtra.gov.in/en/scheme-category/education-training?&Submit=Submit&page=1 Tags associated with the scheme include: Examination Fees, Students, Tuition Fees, Vimukta Jati And Nomadic Tribes.