The name of this welfare scheme is Readymade Kichan Sahaayata Yojana. It is also known as RKSY. Labor Department of Chhattisgarh State started this scheme &amp;amp;quot;Readymade Kitchen Sahaayata Yojana&amp;amp;quot; for unorganized worker on 19 June 2017. The main objective of the scheme to empower unorganized worker by providing financial assistance for Readymade Kitchen. The scheme targets beneficiaries such as Individual. It is specifically implemented in Chhattisgarh. Additionally, the nodal department is Labour Department.

The scheme provides the following benefits: Registered unorganized labor individuals will need to cover the expenses of ₹ 10,000 for scheme execution.
A grant of ₹ 30,000/will be provided by the Chhattisgarh Unorganized Worker State Social Security Board.
The remaining sum will be extended to the tea and chaat cart operator as a bank loan, with the beneficiary responsible for repaying it within a specified timeframe and at the interest rate determined by the bank.
The Board will only transfer its contribution to the beneficiary&#39;s account once all the necessary loanrelated documents are submitted to the board.

Eligibility criteria include: Applicants should be Unorganized workers who sell tea and snacks, or food items in general, and who are registered with the State Social Security Board.
Applicants must be between 18 and 50 years old.
Applicants who are commercial vehicle drivers those must have a health certificate from the RTO.
Applicants must register with the Chhattisgarh Unorganized Workers State Social Security Board at least 90 days in advance.
Applicants can only receive the benefits of this scheme once.
If Applicant already received benefits from any other parallel scheme of the State Government, than applicant will not be eligible for the benefits of this scheme. The application process is as follows: Unregistered Applicant :

All the applicant have to visit the official website Chhattisgarh Labour Department. On the home page click on &quot;Apply&quot; under &quot;Chhattisgarh Unorganized Workers State Social Security Board&quot;.Enter the following details

   Select Group Name : &quot;Asangathit Marmakaar Mandal&quot;
   Select Service : &quot;Asangathit Shramik Panjikaran&quot;
   What do you want to do :  &quot;Aavedan&quot;
   Click next.

Check the eligibility criteria for registration in Chhattisgarh Unorganized Workers State Social Security Board and click next. 
Fill out the online &quot;Registration form&quot;.
Submit.



Already Registered Applicant :

All the applicant have to visit the official website Chhattisgarh Labour Department. On the home page click on &quot;Apply&quot; under &quot;Chhattisgarh Unorganized Workers State Social Security Board&quot;.Enter the following details

   Select Group Name : &quot;Asangathit Marmakaar Mandal&quot;
   Select Service : &quot;Yojana&quot;
   What do you want to do :  &quot;Aavedan&quot;
   Click next.

Select your district name and provide old/new registration number and click next.
Select the scheme name. 
Fill out the online with required details. 
Submit. For more information, please refer to: Guidelines: https://cglabour.nic.in/UOW/smartkitchan.pdf Official Website: https://cglabour.nic.in Tags associated with the scheme include: Empowerment, Financial Assistance, Unorganized Worker.