The name of this welfare scheme is Jharkhand Krishi Rin Mafi Yojana. It is also known as JKRMY. The &amp;quot;Jharkhand Krishi Rin Mafi Yojana&amp;quot; was launched by the Department of Agriculture, Animal Husbandry &amp;amp; Cooperative, Government of Jharkhand on 7th January 2021, to provide relief from the debt burden to short-term agricultural loan holders in the state. Under this scheme, outstanding loan amounts of up to ₹50,000/- in standard crop loan outstanding accounts as of 31st March 2020, will be waived. Standard crop loan borrowers as of 31st March 2020, will be eligible to avail the benefits of this scheme.
The main objectives of the scheme are as follows:

  - To improve the loan eligibility of crop loan holders.
  - To ensure receipt of new crop loan.
  - To stop the migration of farming communities.
  - To strengthen the agricultural economy.

Salient features of the scheme:

  - Details of standard KCC loans covered under Aadhaar card and ration card are being uploaded by the bank on the loan waiver portal.
  - The scheme will be implemented online through the web portal. This will minimize contact between the applicant and officials.
  - Identification of correct beneficiaries using the Aadhaar number of the applicant and paperless application process.
  - Easy online application process.
  - The process of receiving applications through the Common Service Centre and Banks so as to provide scheme facilities to the applicants near their homes.
  - Redressal of grievances of applicants through online mode. The scheme targets beneficiaries such as Individual. It is specifically implemented in Jharkhand. The implementing agency is Department Of Agriculture, Animal Husbandry & Cooperative, Government Of Jharkhand. Additionally, the nodal department is Department of Agriculture, Animal Husbandry & Co-operative.

The scheme provides the following benefits: Under this scheme, outstanding loan amounts of up to ₹50,000/in standard crop loan outstanding accounts as of 31st March 2020, will be waived.

Note: Repayment of outstanding loan through DBT.

Eligibility criteria include: The applicant should be a permanent resident of Jharkhand.
   The age of the farmer should be more than 18 years.
   The applicant should be a farmer who selfcultivates their land or cultivates leased land.
   The applicant should be a small or marginal farmer who has availed of the loan through the Kisan Credit Card.
   The farmer should have a valid Aadhaar number.
   The applicant should be a valid ration card holder.
   The applicant should be a Kisan Credit Card holder.
   The applicant should be a shortterm crop loan holder.
   The crop loan should be issued by a recognized bank located in Jharkhand.
   The family of the deceased debtor is also eligible under the scheme.
   The applicant should have a standard crop loan account.
   Only one member per family holding a crop loan will be eligible.
   This scheme will be voluntary for all crop loan holders.

Note: The applicant has to pay ₹1/only for the application.
Eligibility for banks, criteria, determining outstanding loans and deadlines, eligible loan accounts, and exceptions:

  Qualified Banks Commercial Banks, Scheduled Cooperative Banks and Rural Banks
  Qualifying Loan ShortTerm Crop Loan
  Eligible period for disbursement Upto 2020
  Qualifying Loan Account Single &amp;amp;amp; Joint
  Loans taken for crop diseases The application process is as follows: Step 1: Visit the &amp;quot;Jharkhand Krishi Rin Mafi Yojana&amp;quot; official website to apply for scheme benefits.
Step 2: On the home page, click on &amp;#39;Beneficiary Registration&amp;#39; and then enter your Aadhaar Number.
Step 3: Your basic information, such as name and loan amount, will be displayed upon entering your Aadhaar number.
Step 4: Enter your ration card number.
Step 5: Click on the name under which the loan is registered.
Step 6: Review all displayed information carefully and click &amp;quot;Submit&amp;quot;.
Step 7: Authenticate your Aadhaar to verify your identity.
Step 8: Proceed to make the application fee payment.
Step 9: After successful payment, receive a confirmation slip for your application. The eligible applicant will have to follow the following procedures to avail the benefits of this scheme:Step 1: To apply for this scheme, the eligible applicant has to visit the Common Service Centers (CSCs)/Bank Branch with a copy of his/her Aadhaar Card and Ration Card.
Step 2: CSC Bank will help the applicant to view their outstanding loan amount and other details using their Aadhaar number on the scheme portal.
Step 3: The applicant will have to provide his/her mobile number and copy of Aadhaar and Ration Card for uploading on the scheme portal.
Step 4: Once the applicant confirms the outstanding details, he/she has to authenticate his application through eKYC.
Step 5: Once the applicant confirms his/her details through eKYC, his/her application will be automatically submitted to the scheme portal for further verification and processing.
Step 6: The applicant will receive a token number or reference number upon successful submission of his/her application. This can also be used for future reference.
Step 7: The applicant has to pay ₹1/only for the application.
Step 8: The applicant can also receive the confirmation message of application submission on his/her mobile number.
Step 9: The applicant can be given a receipt for fee payment at the CSC centre. For more information, please refer to: Official Website: https://jkrmy.jharkhand.gov.in/Default Guidelines: https://jkrmy.jharkhand.gov.in/LetterPDF/Letter_-28_Dt-07-01-2021_Rin_Mafi_Santion_letter.pdf Registration Link: https://jkrmy.jharkhand.gov.in/search Tags associated with the scheme include: Agriculture, Crop Loan, Farmer, Kisan Credit Card.