The name of this welfare scheme is "Exhibition" Component of the "Development Of Handicrafts" Scheme. It is also known as ECDHS. The &quot;Exhibition&quot; component of the &quot;Development Of Handicrafts&quot; scheme by the Department of Industries and Commerce, Government of Puducherry, was introduced to boost the marketability of handicrafts and enhance sales through the organization of exhibitions. These exhibitions are conducted locally and in various states of the country. The scheme targets beneficiaries such as Business Entity. It is specifically implemented in Puducherry. Additionally, the nodal department is Industries and Commerce Department, Puducherry.

The scheme provides the following benefits: Travelling allowance toandfro 2nd class (berth) train fare.
For participation in A1 cities&#39; exhibitions: Daily allowance of ₹300 per day per crafts person.
For participation in nonA1 cities&#39; exhibitions: Daily allowance of ₹200 per day per crafts person.
For participation in local exhibitions: Daily allowance of ₹150 per day per crafts person.
Reimbursement of actual expenditure for transporting handicrafts goods from the unit to the exhibition spot.

Eligibility criteria include: The applicant should be a resident of the Union Territory of Puducherry.
The scheme is open to all craftspersons with handicraft units. The application process is as follows: Step 1: The interested applicant should take print of the prescribed format of the application form.
Step 2: In the application form, fill in all the mandatory fields, paste the passportsized photograph (signed across, if required), and attach copies of all the mandatory documents (selfattest, if required).
Step 3: The interested applicant should visit (on a working day, and during office hours) the General Manager of the District Industries Centre (Thattanchavady, Puducherry 605 009, 2248391, 2249392, 2248987, dicpdy@bsnl.in), and submit the duly filled and signed application form and the documents to the concerned authority.
Step 4: On receipt of the application, necessary entries will be made in the application receipt register and a unique number is assigned to the applicant for identifying each applicant which shall be used for all further references and also as acknowledgement for the receipt of the application. For more information, please refer to: Guidelines: https://dic.py.gov.in/development-of-handicrafts Citizen's Charter: https://dic.py.gov.in/sites/default/files/citizencharter.pdf Application Form: https://dic.py.gov.in/application-forms-download-area Grievance Redressal: https://industry.py.gov.in/grievance-redressal-mechanism Tags associated with the scheme include: Allowance, Business, Entrepreneurship, Exhibition, Handicraft.