The name of this welfare scheme is Pathani Samanta Mathematics Talent (Class - 11 To 12). It is also known as PSMTS. The Government of Odisha in School &amp;amp; Mass Education Department is awarding the “Pathani Samanta Mathematics Talent Scholarship (PSMTS)” out of the State budget to provide financial assistance to the meritorious Higher Secondary School Students of Odisha having proficiency in Mathematics studying in Odia medium Government/Aided/Recognized Institutions.
         The scholarship is awarded to students pursuing their studies in Class XI and XII in Higher Secondary Schools affiliated with the Council of Higher Secondary Education, Odisha. Under this scheme, the top 1000 students fulfilling the eligibility criteria will receive ₹ 5,000 per month for 10 months in a year.
Merit Criteria for Selection:
The following factors will be taken into consideration:
1.	Fulfilment of eligibility conditions as per the modalities.
2.	Online authentication/invalidation of student records by the Principal/Head of concerned Higher Secondary Schools/Institutions.
3.	Final Merit/Selection list of 1000 students will be drawn in terms of aggregate marks plus the marks secured in Mathematics in HSC Exam provided by BSE (O).
4.	In case of a tie, the candidate&amp;#39;s position shall be determined by the mark secured in S.C.P.
Procedure for Disbursement:
The scholarship would be sanctioned subject to fulfillment of the prescribed eligibility criteria by the students and validation/authentication by the Principals of the concerned Higher Secondary Schools/ Institutions in online mode only. The scholarship will be paid to the selected students by the Directorate of Higher Secondary Education through DM- (Direct Benefit Transfer) mode only and will be transferred to the Bank account of the beneficiaries.
Duration of Scholarship and its Renewal:
A student eligible for the scholarship will be paid for 10 months a year. Scholarship awarded to any student under the “Pathani Samanta Mathematics Talent Scholarship” is renewable if the awardee qualifies for promotion to a higher class (Class XII), which will be authenticated online by the concerned Higher Secondary School/Institution.
          For scholarship renewal, the names of selected students in the previous selection year will be listed in the Principal&amp;#39;s login ID. Only students continuing in the concerned academic year have to be authenticated online by the Principal. If any student is found to have dropped out/not been promoted, then the Higher Secondary School shall not validate their record. The scheme targets beneficiaries such as Individual. It is specifically implemented in Odisha. The implementing agency is School & Mass Education Department, Government Of Odisha. Additionally, the nodal department is School and Mass Education Department.

It falls under the categories: Education & Learning.

Eligibility criteria include: The student pursuing his/her studies in Class XI and XII in Higher Secondary Schools affiliated to Council of Higher Secondary Education, Odisha.
The students have proficiency in Mathematics.
The candidate must belong to the General, SC, ST, OBC/SEBC &amp; EBC categories.
The scheme is applicable to students reading in Odia Medium Higher Secondary Schools affiliated to CHSE(O).
There shall be no income criteria for the award of this scholarship. For more information, please refer to: Guideline: https://scholarship.odisha.gov.in/website/scholarship-details Website: https://scholarship.odisha.gov.in/ Tags associated with the scheme include: Direct Benefit Transfer, Financial Assistance, Mathematics, Scholarship, Students.