The name of this welfare scheme is CM’s Lairik Heiminnashi Programme (CMLH): Pre-Matric Remedial Coaching. It is also known as CMLH-PREM. Introduced in the year 2017-18, CMLH is a unique intervention program/scheme with the objective of providing hand-holding support in the form of free-of-cost remedial coaching for English, Mathematics, and Science, to the students from minority, OBC, or SC communities of the State of Manipur. Government-run schools, recognized private schools or reputed registered Private Coaching Centers will be empanelled as Coaching Centres (CC), based on the availability of logistics and manpower for running the coaching classes. The coaching is intended to help eligible students who are very weak in their studies to achieve higher grades/marks in the subjects covered by the coaching. The scheme targets beneficiaries such as Individual, Institution. It is specifically implemented in Manipur. Additionally, the nodal department is Other Backward Classes and Scheduled Castes Department.

It falls under the categories: Education & Learning, Social welfare & Empowerment.

Eligibility criteria include: #### Eligibility of the Institution


The institution must be one of the following A government school.
A private school recognized by the state government.
A reputed registered Private Coaching Center.



Class Size:
Each class shall have not more than 40 students. 
Students of no two classes should be mixed in the same classroom.


Session and Period Structure:
Each class shall have a minimum of 3 periods of 45 minutes each, on coaching days.
Duration of the coaching programme for each class shall be 6 months.


Infrastructure Requirements:
There should be a minimum of 3 classrooms, with each classroom to be used for classroom teaching of 1 class only.
Each classroom should have the capacity to accommodate at least 40 students.
The CC should have sufficient toilets, safe &amp; hygienic drinking water facility, an adequate number of benches and desks, functional fans, a functional electricity connection, and a good lighting system.


Manpower Requirement:
The Coaching Centers should provide an adequate number of qualified teachers for each subject for all classes for which coaching is to be provided.
Every Teacher should possess at least a graduate degree in the subject for which he/she is assigned to teach.
One Centre Coordinator should be designated by the CC for the smooth running of the CC. 
One Peoncumchowkidar should be designated by the CC.
Other personnel/staff may be provided by the CC as may be required.


Subjects and Syllabus:
The subjects to be taught for PreMRC are English, Mathematics, and Science.
The syllabus will be as per the syllabus prescribed by the Board of Secondary Education, Manipur (BOSEM).


#### Eligibility of the Student



The applicant must be a citizen of India.
The applicant must be a resident of the state of Manipur.
The applicant must be a student of Class 8th to Class 10th, in a government academic institution or an institution receiving grantinaid support from the government.
The applicant must be from Scheduled Caste (ST), Other Backward Class (OBC), or Minority Community (as defined by the Government of India).



> Ranking / Preference / Priority



Economic Ranking: A merit list shall be prepared in order of increasing family income. Where family income is the same between two applicant students, the student belonging to a family with a larger number of family members will be given a higher ranking. Where the family size is also the same, the older of the two students will be ranked higher.


Academic Ranking: Another merit list will be prepared in increasing order of marks, secured by the student in the final academic assessment of the previous class attended. Where the marks secured by two students are equal, the older the student will be ranked higher.


Final Ranking: A final rank will be prepared by adding the academic rank and the economic rank. The final rank will be the basis for the selection of a beneficiary under the scheme. In the event of the final rank being equal, preference will be given to the student ranked higher in the academic rank.


> Reservation / Earmarking



At least 30% (or higher, as may be decided by the Government) of available seats may be reserved exclusively for girl students. 


In the selection of students for filling up the 30% seats reserved exclusively for girl students, the above scoring/ranking system shall be followed amongst the girl students. The remaining girl students, who do not get a seat after saturation of the 30% of seats reserved for girl students, shall be considered in the remaining 70% of open seats based on the same scoring system.


NOTE: The State Government may relax any of the norms as per requirement, in order to meet the broader objectives of the program. For more information, please refer to: Guidelines: http://www.manipurobcsc.gov.in/wp-content/uploads/2023/02/Application-Form-Pre-Matric-2020-21.pdf Tags associated with the scheme include: Coaching, Education, Minority, Other Backward Class, Pre-Matric, Scheduled Caste, Student.