The name of this welfare scheme is Shednet House. It is also known as SH. The Shednet House scheme under the Agriculture Department Rajasthan Government provided subsidies to farmers so they could earn more income by cultivating horticultural crops like vegetables, flowers, fruits, etc. by controlling the agro-climatic factors, temperature, humidity, and sunlight. A shednet house or other woven material is a structure that has openings for the necessary sunlight, moisture, and air to enter from the open spaces. It creates a suitable microenvironment conducive to the growth of the plant. It is also called shednet house or net house.


> Other important points


1. Construction of shednet house should be done only after administrative approval/work order has been issued by the Horticulture Department.
1. After construction, verification will be done by the committee formed.
1. Payment of grant amount directly into the bank account of the farmer or to the producer firm based on written consent of the farmer. The scheme targets beneficiaries such as Individual. It is specifically implemented in Rajasthan. Additionally, the nodal department is Agriculture Department.

The scheme provides the following benefits: > For a maximum area of 4000 square meters


50 percent subsidy is given to generalcategory farmers.
70 percent subsidy is given to small, marginal, scheduled caste, and scheduled tribe farmers.



> In compliance with the Chief Minister&#39;s budget announcement, 25 percent additional grant is being given to all the small and marginal category farmers of the state along with the farmers of the Scheduled Tribe areas.

Eligibility criteria include: The applicant should be a farmer.
The applicant should be a native of Rajasthan.
The applicant must have agricultural land ownership and irrigation sources. The application process is as follows: > Registration

Step1: Applicant have to visit the official portal. 
Step2: Click on the option “Register”.
Step3: Then you will be redirected to the SSO registration page. The registration page will appear with the following options.


  Citizen


Step4: Choose the either one option from  the Jan Aadhaar Or Google to process further.


  Jan Aadhaar : Enter the Jan Aadhaar number, click on the ‘Next’ button,


      Select your name, the name of the head of the family and all the other members and 
      Click on the ‘Send OTP’ button. Enter the ‘OTP’ and 
      Click on the ‘Verify OTP’ button to Complete the registration. 






  Google : Enter the Gmail ID, click on the ‘Next’ button, 


      Enter the password.
      A new link appear on screen, now click on the new SSO link.
      SSO id will appear on the screen, now create the password.
      Enter Mobile number, click on registration.




Step5: Submit.


> Apply

Step1: Applicant have to visit the official portal. 
Step2: After login, dashboard will open.
Step3: Click on “ RAJKISAN ” option. 
Step4: In &quot;Farmer&quot;, click on &quot;Application Entry Request&quot;.
Step5: Enter the &quot;Bhamashah ID&quot; or &quot;Janaadhaar ID&quot; and search.  
Step6: Select the person name and scheme name. 
Step7: Complete the Aadhaar Authentication and click on Get details. 
Step8: Provide the required details.
            Pensioner Details.
            Bank Details.
            Disability Details.
            Verification Details.
            Upload Documents.
Step9: Submit. For more information, please refer to: Guidelines: https://rajkisan.rajasthan.gov.in/Rajkisanweb/Kisan Registration: https://sso.rajasthan.gov.in/register Login: https://sso.rajasthan.gov.in/signin Tags associated with the scheme include: Agriculture, Farmer, Farming, Shednet House.