The name of this welfare scheme is "Entrepreneureship Development Programme (EDP)" Component of the "Development of Industries" Scheme. It is also known as EDPEDP. The scheme &quot;Entrepreneureship Development Programme (EDP)&quot; by the District Industries Centre, Department of Industries and Commerce, Union Territory of Puducherry aims to to develop entrepreneurship skills by providing training for setting up of the projects. The programmes contains motivating the prospective entrepreneurs, highlight respective projects, the course of actions to taken by them for setting up and successful running their unit. The scheme targets beneficiaries such as Individual. It is specifically implemented in Puducherry. Additionally, the nodal department is Industries and Commerce Department, Puducherry.

The scheme provides the following benefits: The entire expenditure towards the training will be met.
The period of training will generally be for a week.

Eligibility criteria include: The applicant should be a native of the Union Territory of Puducherry (or) continuous resident of the area for the past three years. The application process is as follows: Step 1: The interested applicant should take print of the prescribed format of the application form.
Step 2: In the application form, fill in all the mandatory fields, paste the passportsized photograph (signed across, if required), and attach copies of all the mandatory documents (selfattest, if required).
Step 3: The interested applicant should visit (on a working day, and during office hours) the Deputy Functional Manager (EI) of the District Industries Centre (Thattanchavady, Puducherry 605 009), and submit the duly filled and signed application form and the documents to the concerned authority.
Step 4: On receipt of the application, necessary entries will be made in the application receipt register and a unique number is assigned to the applicant for identifying each applicant which shall be used for all further references and also as acknowledgement for the receipt of the application. For more information, please refer to: Guidelines: https://dic.py.gov.in/training Citizen's Charter: https://dic.py.gov.in/sites/default/files/citizencharter.pdf Application Form: https://dic.py.gov.in/application-forms-download-area Contact Us: https://dic.py.gov.in/contact-us Tags associated with the scheme include: Business, Entrepreneur, Entrepreneurship, Skill, Training, Vocational.