The name of this welfare scheme is Nagaland State Merit Scholarship. It is also known as NSMS. Details
All those students who have secured 80% marks in the class 10th exam while holding the domicile of Nagaland state can apply online under the Nagaland State Merit Scholarship for getting the scholarship amount. This scholarship will not be provided to students who have failed the previous year’s exam.
&lt;br&gt;

The DHE has launched the Nagaland State Merit Scholarship for providing socio-economic welfare to the students belonging to the residentship of Nagaland state. The student must be studying or getting admission to the post-matric class (class 11th, 12, UG, PG Degree). The students will also need to secure minimum marks in the previous year’s exam.
&lt;br&gt;

Objective 

  - The primary objective of launching the Nagaland State Merit Scholarship is to provide financial stability to the students studying or undertaking post-matric classes from the Nagaland government schools and colleges. The students will need to secure at least 70% to 80% marks in the previous year’s exam. In case of the scholarship renewal, the students can submit their last year’s Marksheet.
  - The Nagaland State Merit Scholarship is to provide scholarship amounts to students belonging to the citizenship of Nagaland state so that they will be able to avail the best educational opportunities or facilities after getting this scholarship amount. The Department of Higher Education will be delegated with the task of carrying out scholarship operations.

&lt;br&gt; The scheme targets beneficiaries such as Individual. It is specifically implemented in Nagaland. Additionally, the nodal department is School Education Department, Nagaland.

It falls under the categories: Education & Learning.

Eligibility criteria include: Eligibility

The student must be a permanent resident or citizen of Nagaland state.
The applicant must be a student in a Postmatric class.
The student must secure 70% or 80% marks in the last year’s exam for getting a scholarship renewal.
Students in the ST category will also be given scholarship enrollment. For more information, please refer to: Guidelines: https://highereducation.nagaland.gov.in/wp-content/uploads/2017/07/Merit2021-22.pdf Tags associated with the scheme include: Financial Assistance, Merit Scholarship, Nagaland State.