The name of this welfare scheme is Scholarship To 2 Years Pre-Service Student Teachers Undergoing D.El.Ed Programme At DIETs And CTTC Sohra. It is also known as STYPSSTDPDCS. The scheme “Scholarship to 2 Years Pre-Service Student Teachers undergoing D.El.Ed Programme at DIETs and CTTC Sohra” was launched by the Dept. of Education, Govt. of Meghalaya in April, 2012. The admission under the scheme shall be made on merit on the basis of marks obtained in the qualifying examination and/or in the entrance test. The purpose of having the entrance test is to tap the interest of the candidates who wish to pursue his/her profession in teaching.
&gt; Objectives:


   1. To attract the best talent to take up teaching as a profession.
   1. To provide high-quality education services to students in rural areas.
   1. To ensure that specific areas of the workforce need to be addressed and contribute to enhancing students&amp;#39; learning outcomes.
   1. To provide additional resources for DIETs in strengthening areas not covered by the Central Sponsored Scheme (CSS) for teacher education.

&gt; Structure of Entrance Test: The entrance test shall consist of a written examination as per the structure below.


   1. All questions will be Multiple Choice Questions, each carrying one mark.
   1. There will be no negative marking for incorrect answers.
   1. Questions will also test the aptitude of teachers towards the teaching profession. The scheme targets beneficiaries such as Individual. It is specifically implemented in Meghalaya. The implementing agency is Directorate Of Educational Research And Training. Additionally, the nodal department is Education Department.

The scheme provides the following benefits: This scheme offers a scholarship of ₹5000/per month for 2 years (10 months per year) to attract the state&amp;#39;s best talent to take up teaching as a profession.

Eligibility criteria include: The applicant should be a permanent resident of Meghalaya.
   The applicant who wants to become a teacher may apply for the scheme.
   The applicant should be Class XII passed or its equivalent examination from recognized Boards/Councils with 50% marks with 5% relaxation for ST/SC/OBC/PWD.
   A candidate waiting for Class XII results may also apply with the condition that they can produce their provisional/original documents at the time of counseling.
   The age of the applicant should be between 18 to 27 years and age relaxation will be up to 5 years for SC/ST/OBC/PWD as per the reservation policy of the government of Meghalaya. 

Note: There will be blockwise allocation of seats to facilitate the availability of trained teachers locally in the respective blocks.
&gt; Reservation Policy:


  As per the Meghalaya Government Reservation Policy for different communities of the state.
  5% of the seats will be reserved for persons with disabilities.

&gt; Marks allotment for the counseling:

Sl. No.DescriptionsMarks Allotment1Academic (% of marks in Class XII)i. Marks with 80 – 100%50ii. Marks with 60 79% 40iii. Marks with 60 79% 302Entrance test marks503Personality104Communication Skills105Aptitude &amp;amp;amp;amp; interest towards teaching 206General Knowledge107Maximum Marks150Note 01: Waiting list candidates should be selected equivalent to the intake capacity of the institute.
Note 02: The number of candidates for each counseling shall be decided by the respective DIETs.
Note 03: In case the number of selected candidates is less than the intake capacity, in such cases, the institution should give preference to the waiting list from other districts as well.
&gt; Allotment of seats:

At least 30% of the seats are to be allotted to candidates having Science and Mathematics backgrounds at the Class – XII level. The application process is as follows: > Application Process:

Step 01: The students applying for the scholarship for the first time need to &amp;quot;Register&amp;quot; using the icon “New Registration” at the NSP Portal URL https://scholarships.gov.in/, by providing accurate and correct information as per their documents.
Step 02: After successfully get registration done, students will get their “Student Registration ID”.
Step 03: Through “Student Registration ID” students will be able to login into the account using the icon “Fresh Application” at NSP Portal.
Step 04: After successful login to the portal, the welcome page appeared. On clicking the “Application Form” icon, students will be directed to the application screen.
Step 05: Now, the students may fill out the complete application form and on clicking the “Final Submit” button, the application is finally submitted.
Step 06: On successful submission of the application, a systemgenerated registration number is sent to the students which can be used for future reference.
&gt; Selection Procedure:

Entrance Test
Counselling
The selection procedure will be based on merit as per block quota For more information, please refer to: Guidelines: https://scholarships.gov.in/public/schemeGuidelines/meghalaya/Guidelines_3045.pdf Website: https://www.meghalaya.gov.in/node/37592 Website: http://megeducation.gov.in/dert/scholarship_Preservicescholarship.html Tags associated with the scheme include: Education, Scholarship, Student, Teacher, Teaching.