The name of this welfare scheme is Financial Assistance To The Child Victims Of Violence Under TheNational Foundation For Communal Harmony. It is also known as FACVV-NFCH. The scheme &quot;Financial Assistance to the Child Victims of Violence under the National Foundation for Communal Harmony (NFCH)&quot; is Financial Assistance by the Social Welfare Department, Govt. of Jammu and Kashmir. It was registered on the 19th Feb 1992 under the Societies Registration Act, 1860 with the main objective of providing financial assistance for the physical &amp; psychological rehabilitation of child victims of communal, caste, ethnic &amp; terrorist violence with special reference to their care, education &amp; training, besides promoting communal harmony, fraternity, and national integration. The applicant shall approach the concerned District Social Welfare Officer (DSWO) for submission of the application. This scheme is 100% Sponsored by the Union Territory of Jammu &amp; Kashmir, and only the permanent residents of the Union Territory of Jammu &amp; Kashmir can apply for this scheme.


> Objectives:


1. To provide assistance to the children of families affected by c communal, caste, ethnic, and any other form of violence or clashes with fracture social harmony. The assistance is particularly aimed at their education and/or vocational training.
1. To assist in the physical and psychological rehabilitation and assimilation into the mainstream of society of the children of families affected by communal, caste, ethnic, and any other form of violence or clashes with fractured social harmony. The scheme targets beneficiaries such as Individual. It is specifically implemented in Jammu and Kashmir. The implementing agency is District Social Welfare Offices (DSWO) Of The Department Of Social Welfare, Union Territory Of Jammu & Kashmir. Additionally, the nodal department is Department Of Social Welfare J and K.

The scheme provides the following benefits: > General Education:


Children in Class A &amp; B cities receive ₹ 800/per month until they reach the age of 18 years.
Children in other places receive ₹ 750/per month until they reach the age of 18 years.



> Training / Vocational Education:


₹ 150/per month per child in addition to assistance for general education.



> Group Personal Accident Insurance for Child Victims:


Death: ₹ 25,000/Loss of 2 limbs or one limb and one eye: ₹ 25,000/.
100% permanent disablement other than those mentioned above: ₹ 25,000/.
Reimbursement of medical expenses incurred by a child for treatment in a hospital or nursing home and as an indoor patient for an injury sustained in an accident (based upon a medical certificate from the consulting doctor): ₹ 500/.

Eligibility criteria include: The applicant should be a citizen of India.
The applicant should be a domicile / permanent resident of the Union Territory of Jammu &amp; Kashmir.
The applicant should be a child less than 18 years of age. In exceptional cases, it can be extended up to the age of 21 years.
The applicant should be an Orphan or Destitute.
The applicant&#39;s main bread earner should have either been killed or permanently incapacitated in communal, caste, ethnic, or terrorist violence. 
The applicant&#39;s family should be &#39;Below Poverty Line&#39; (BPL).
The applicant should not be receiving any assistance on a regular basis from any other source.

NOTE: The onetime financial assistance provided by the State Government / Union Territory Administration for such a victim is not considered &#39;another source of assistance&#39; for this purpose. The application process is as follows: Step 1: Visit the District Social Welfare Office or the Office of the Deputy Commissioner, and request a hard copy of the format of the application form for the NFCH scheme from the District Social Welfare Officer (DSWO) or from the Deputy Commissioner.
Step 2: In the application form, fill in all the mandatory fields, paste the passportsized photograph (signed across), and attach all the (selfattested) mandatory documents in support of the claim.
Step 3: Submit the duly filled and signed application form along with the documents to the DSWO.
Step 4: Acquire the receipt/acknowledgment of the successful submission of the application form from the DSWO.


> PostApplication Processes:

Step 1: A District Committee under the District Magistrate / Collector / Deputy Commissioner (including Superintendents of Police, DSWO, and District Child &amp; Women Development Officer) identifies beneficiaries and scrutinizes their eligibility.
Step 2: The District Committee sends its recommendations to the Foundation.
Step 3: In case of sanctioning, the District Magistrate /Collector/Deputy Commissioner opens a separate bank account for the beneficiary under the name ‘District Committee National Foundation for Communal Harmony of the particular district. The payment is made to the guardian of the sanctioned student in the form of a pays account check/bank draft in a modest function.
Step 4: The next year’s claim of the student is only released after obtaining the pass certificate/current study certificate/income certificate of the guardians or the mother.


> Check Application Status:

The District Social Welfare Officer (DSWO) / Deputy Commissioner can be contacted regarding the application status of the scheme. For more information, please refer to: Guidelines: https://jksabwdobcs.com/pdf/gov_schemes.pdf Tags associated with the scheme include: Below Poverty Line, Child Victim, Destitute, Education, Insurance, Orphan.