The name of this welfare scheme is Assam Arogya Nidhi Scheme. It is also known as AAN. The scheme “Assam Arogya Nidhi (AAN)” was launched by the Health &amp;amp; Family Welfare Department, Govt. of Assam to provide financial assistance to BPL families and families having an annual income of less than ₹5.00 Lakhs. The financial assistance is provided for general and specialized treatment of (i) life-threatening diseases, and (ii) of injuries caused by natural and manmade disasters, such as industrial/ farm/ road/ rail accidents, bomb blasts, etc. Life-threatening diseases include Heart Diseases and Heart Surgery, Cancer, Kidney and Urinary diseases, Orthopedic, Thallassemia, Bone marrow Transplant, AIDS, and chronic Mental Illness with Surgical Treatment. Beneficiaries are selected by a Selection Committee that has been notified by the Government of Assam. Under the AAN, the Government of India contributes 50% of the funds sanctioned by the State Government.
Grant of Assistance: 
1.	The Chief Minister of Assam may grant permission directly for the maximum benefits available under AAN.
2.	The Chairperson of the Committee can clear the grant of financial assistance under AAN against eligible cases up to ₹2.00 Lakh.
3.	For grant of assistance above ₹2.00 Lakh up to ₹3.00 Lakh, the State Level committee will decide the eligible cases.
Mode of disbursement: Financial assistance will be disbursed to the beneficiary concerned or reimbursed to the hospital concerned through bank account transfer only. The advance payment shall only be to the hospital subject to a maximum of ₹3.00 lakh. The scheme targets beneficiaries such as Family, Individual. It is specifically implemented in Assam. The implementing agency is Health & Family Welfare Department, Government Of Assam. Additionally, the nodal department is Health and Family Welfare Department.

It falls under the categories: Health & Wellness, Social welfare & Empowerment.

Eligibility criteria include: All Indian citizens who are ordinarily resident of the State of Assam will be eligible under the scheme.
The family income of the applicant should be less than ₹00 lakhs per annum.
There will be no age limit for coverage under the scheme.
No Govt. employee or Govt. pensioners and their family members will be eligible under the scheme.
Treatment should be undertaken in any govt. hospital including Govt. Medical Colleges and all reputed Pvt. Hospitals registered under Clinical Establishment Act. anywhere in the state or in the country. For more information, please refer to: Guideline: https://nhm.assam.gov.in/schemes/assam-arogya-nidhi Website: https://hfw.assam.gov.in/schemes/assam-arogya-nidhi-aan Tags associated with the scheme include: Accidental Case, Diseases, Financial Assistance, Hospital, Treatment.