The name of this welfare scheme is Mandahasam Scheme To Provide Artificial Dentures To Senior Citizens. It is also known as MSPADSC. The scheme “Mandahasam Scheme to Provide Artificial Dentures to Senior Citizens” was launched by the Department of Social Justice, Government of Kerala. This scheme is started by the Government of Kerala for giving free tooth sets to senior citizens. The scheme aims to reduce nutritional, physical, and mental problems faced by elderly people after losing teeth. The Department of Social Justice would prepare a list of dental colleges and dental treatment centers from where the beneficiaries could avail treatment. It would also ensure the quality of artificial teeth and quality treatment by setting standards and norms. The scheme targets beneficiaries such as Individual. It is specifically implemented in Kerala. The implementing agency is District Social Justice Office, Kerala. Additionally, the nodal department is Social Justice Department.

The scheme provides the following benefits: Under the scheme, one beneficiary would get maximum financial assistance of ₹5,000/for fixing the tooth.

Note: The benefit of this scheme is not given for only partial replacement of teeth.

Eligibility criteria include: The applicant should be a native and resident of Kerala State.
   The applicant’s age has to be 60 years or above.
   The applicants should be from Below Poverty Line (BPL) category.
   The persons who have completely lost their teeth or those who have partially lost their teeth and are in a position to have them extracted as they are unusable are eligible to apply under the scheme.
   The persons who have been certified by a qualified dentist in the prescribed form as unfit for placing artificial teeth.

Note: The priority will be given to the oldest person under the scheme. The application process is as follows: Registration Process:
Step 01: To avail of the benefits of the scheme, the applicant needs to visit SUNEETHIOnline Service Application Portal
Step 02: On the home page, click on “One time Registration”
Step 03: Fill in the details like Name, Email ID &amp;amp; Mobile Number and click on ‘Register’.
Step 04: The applicant needs to enter the verification code received on the mobile number and click on ‘Verify’.
Step 05: Now, a form will open to create the new profile, fill in all the mandatory details and click on ‘Register’.
Login/Application Process: 
Step 01: Once the registration process is completed, the applicant should visit SUNEETHIOnline Service Application Portal and click on “Citizen Login”.
Step 02: Enter the user name i.e. Mobile Number and Password and click on “Sign in”.
Step 03: Now, the applicant needs to update all their details i.e. Personal Information, Contact Details, Identity Cards &amp;amp; Bank Details by clicking on the &amp;#39;Edit&amp;#39; button.
Step 04: Once the applicant updated their profile successfully, the schemes will appear on the left side of the screen.
Step 05: Select the scheme and click on the “Apply Now” button.
Step 06: Fill in all the mandatory details in the application form and click on the ‘Submit’ button. For more information, please refer to: Official Website: http://sjd.kerala.gov.in/scheme-info.php?scheme_id=IDExMXNWOHVxUiN2eQ== Application Form: http://sjd.kerala.gov.in/DOCUMENTS/Downloadables/Application%20Forms/12424.pdf Order/Notice: http://sjd.kerala.gov.in/DOCUMENTS/Order_new/GOs/12423.pdf Tags associated with the scheme include: Artificial Tooth, Dental, Dentures, Financial Assistance, Senior Citizen, Teeth.