The name of this welfare scheme is Scheme for Providing Employment Opportunities by Establishing Piggery, Sheep and Goat Units (General). It is also known as SPEOEPSGUG. The scheme “Scheme for Providing Employment Opportunities by Establishing Piggery, Sheep and Goat Units” is implemented by the Department of Animal Husbandry &amp;amp; Dairying, Government of Haryana. This is a credit-linked scheme with a primary objective of providing self-employment opportunities, the unemployed persons will be assisted by way of establishing Sheep or Goat Units (15 female+1 male) and Piggery Units (10 female+1 male). 
Medium-term objectives:

  - To provide self-employment to the unemployed.
  - To provide socio-economic security to weaker sections/Antyodaya Families of the society.
  - To increase wool/meat/pork production in the State.

Long-term objectives:

  - Creation of employment opportunities through Animal Husbandry activities.
  - Increase in wool/meat/pork production of the state.
  - Upgradation and conservation of valuable breeds/germplasm available in the State.

The department would assist the beneficiaries in establishing these units in the following ways:

  - Sponsoring of loan applications to banks/financial institutions.
  - Purchase of animals, tagging, and issuance of Health certificates.
  - Providing Veterinary health and other facilities like free vaccination and management guidance etc.
  - Imparting 11 days of Dairy husbandry training at the concerned Sub Division/District Level in the State to the desirous persons. The scheme targets beneficiaries such as Individual. It is specifically implemented in Haryana. The implementing agency is Department Of Animal Husbandry & Dairying, Government Of Haryana. Additionally, the nodal department is Animal Husbandry & Dairying Department.

The scheme provides the following benefits: &gt; Financial Assistance under the Scheme:

Establishment of 10+1 Piggery units:

  25% subsidy on the cost of livestock which has been availed as a loan by the beneficiary for the establishment of a 10+1 Piggery unit.
  A maximum amount of ₹25,000/could be provided as financial assistance in form of a subsidy.

Establishment of 15+1 Sheep/Goat units:

  25 % subsidy on the cost of livestock which has been availed as a loan by the beneficiary for establishment of 15+1 Sheep/Goat unit.
  A maximum amount of ₹24,500/could be provided as financial assistance in form of a subsidy.

Note 1: The financial assistance will be provided by the Government in the form of a subsidy after three months of establishment of the unit and tagging or loan disbursement by the bank whichever is later, subject to verification of the unit by the concerned Veterinary Surgeon.
Note 2: The financial assistance may be delayed due to nonavailability of the budget or any other unforeseen circumstances.
Note 3: The subsidy will be provided in the Loan account of the beneficiary.
&gt; Financial Assistance for Livestock Insurance under the Scheme:


  If any Livestock Insurance Scheme is operational by the Department or Haryana Livestock Development Board then the insurance of animals purchased for the establishment of a unit is to be covered under that Scheme, wherever permissible.
  However, if no Livestock Insurance Scheme is operational then the Beneficiary/Bank would have to arrange for the insurance of the animals at their own.

Eligibility criteria include: The applicant should be of 18 to 55 years of age and a resident of Haryana.
   The applicant must be unemployed (employment even in the private sector would bar an applicant from availing assistance under the Scheme).
   There are no mandatory educational qualifications or training requirements.
   The applicant should have a space/shed for keeping animals.
   Any applicant who has earlier availed benefits under any Departmental Scheme for the establishment of a livestock unit would not be eligible for availing benefits under the Scheme.
   The applicant would have to submit a SelfDeclaration for being unemployed and for undertaking to abide by other conditions as required under the Scheme.

Note: In case an applicant lives at a place other than where the animals are kept or intended to be kept. Then, the jurisdiction area will be the place where animals are kept or intended to be kept (Within state of Haryana only). The application process is as follows: &gt; Registration Process on AntyodayaSARAL Portal:

Step 01: Any unemployed person desirous of establishing Piggery, Sheep, and Goat units under the scheme may apply online through the Official PortalAntyodayaSARAL Portal. https://saralharyana.gov.in/
Step 02: If the applicant is not registered on the portal, he/she gets registered there. 
Step 03: For registration, click “New User” under ‘Sign In Here’ and fill in all the mandatory details i.e. Name, Email ID, Mobile Number, Password &amp;amp; State. Click on ‘Submit’.
Step 04: Verify your mobile number and email ID through the received OTP and complete the registration process.
&gt; Login to apply for the scheme:

Step 01: To avail the benefits of the scheme, visit the Official AntyodayaSARAL Portal and log in through the email ID used while registering.
Step 02: Enter Password &amp;amp; Captcha and click on ‘Login’.
Step 03: After successful login, click on ‘Apply for Services’ and then ‘View all Available Services’
Step 04: Now, you can search for the scheme and click on the scheme to go ahead and fill out the application form.
Step 05: Enter your Parivar Pehchan Patra number Family ID and click on “Click here to Fetch Family Data” which displays the family members registered under the given Family ID.
Step 06: Select the beneficiary/applicant name and enter the OTP that is being sent to the selected family member for verification. Click on “Click to Verify”
Step 07: Fill in all the mandatory details and upload all the mandatory documents.
Step 08: Preview the application form and click on ‘Submit’.
&gt; Tracking of Application:

Applicants can track his/her application through the Official AntyodayaSARAL Portal by entering their Department Name, Scheme Name, and Application Reference ID.
&gt; Selection of beneficiaries and sponsoring the case to Banks for sanction of loan:


  The Deputy Director of the concerned district would examine the applications received on the portal on a first come first serve basis. Applications not found in order would be rejected with the comments on the portal. The applications found in order will be accepted and forwarded to the concerned Sub Divisional Officer within a period of three working days.
  The valid applications along with attached documents clearly indicating the required amount of loan will be sent to the concerned service provider area bank by the Sub Divisional Officer through Email with in a period of three working days in format annexed as AnnexureThe applicant may submit application through Common Service Centres, Antodaya Kendra, Atal Sewa Kendra, edisha Centres, or any other such centres. For more information, please refer to: Guidelines: https://pashudhanharyana.gov.in/sites/default/files/documents/Scheme%202023-24/PSGU%20Scheme.pdf Scheme Details: https://kms.saralharyana.nic.in/ViewDoc?Id=ybnO1slU%2fY%2fC2R0wOMiwXw%3d%3d Scheme Details (Page No. 18): https://parivarutthan.haryana.gov.in/assets/uploads/Schemes%20booklet%20(%20updated%20%2004.05.2023).pdf Utthan Portal: https://parivarutthan.haryana.gov.in/ Antyodaya-SARAL Portal: https://saralharyana.gov.in/ Tags associated with the scheme include: Animal Husbandry, Financial Assistance, Goat Unit, Piggery Unit, Self-employment, Sheep Unit, Subsidy, Unemployed.