The name of this welfare scheme is Distress Relief Fund For The Differently Abled (Medical Treatment). It is also known as DRFDA(MT). The scheme “Distress Relief Fund for the Differently Abled (Medical Treatment)” was launched by the Department of Social Justice, Government of Kerala. As per G.O.(MS) 4/95 SWD dated 24-01-1995, the Government of Kerala sanctioned the Distress Relief Fund for disabled persons. An amount of Rupees One crore has been deposited in Treasury as a corpus fund. The interest accrued from the fund is being utilized for giving financial assistance to disabled persons for the following purposes:
1.	For medical treatment, including surgery.
2.	To persons who become handicapped due to accidents.
3.	For any other purpose which is not covered by the existing schemes for the handicapped. The scheme targets beneficiaries such as Individual. It is specifically implemented in Kerala. The implementing agency is District Social Justice Office, Kerala. Additionally, the nodal department is Social Justice Department.

The scheme provides the following benefits: Under the scheme, financial assistance of ₹5,000/per person in a year will be given to the disabled person or who has become handicapped for their medical treatment, including surgery.

Eligibility criteria include: The applicant should be a native and resident of Kerala State.
The disabled person or who has become handicapped due to an accident is eligible to apply under the scheme for their medical treatment, including surgery.
Those differentlyabled persons whose annual income does not exceed (₹20,000/in Rural areas and ₹22,375/in Urban areas) shall be eligible for financial assistance.
Physically handicapped persons shall include the following disabilities/categories:

      a. Blind
      b. Deaf and Dumb
      c. Orthopedically Handicapped
      d. Mentally Challenged
      e. Persons in the Below Poverty Line (BPL) category having 40 % disability or more. The application process is as follows: Registration Process:
Step 01: To avail of the benefits of the scheme, the applicant needs to visit SUNEETHIOnline Service Application Portal
Step 02: On the home page, click on “One time Registration”
Step 03: Fill in the details like Name, Email ID &amp;amp; Mobile Number and click on ‘Register’.
Step 04: The applicant needs to enter the verification code received on the mobile number and click on ‘Verify’.
Step 05: Now, a form will open to create the new profile, fill in all the mandatory details and click on ‘Register’.
Login/Application Process: 
Step 01: Once the registration process is completed, the applicant should visit SUNEETHIOnline Service Application Portal and click on “Citizen Login”.
Step 02: Enter the user name i.e. Mobile Number and Password and click on “Sign in”.
Step 03: Now, the applicant needs to update all their details i.e. Personal Information, Contact Details, Identity Cards &amp;amp; Bank Details by clicking on the &amp;#39;Edit&amp;#39; button.
Step 04: Once the applicant updated their profile successfully, the schemes will appear on the left side of the screen.
Step 05: Select the scheme and click on the “Apply Now” button.
Step 06: Fill in all the mandatory details in the application form and click on the ‘Submit’ button. Step 01: To avail of the benefits of the scheme, the applicant needs to visit the official website of the Social Justice Department, Government of Kerala to download the application form.
Step 02: The applicants need to fill out the application form completely.
Step 03: The duly filled application forms along with the documents prescribed can be submitted to the concerned District Social Justice Officer (DSJO). 
Step 04: The DSJO shall forward the applications to the Secretary to GovernmentSocial Justice Department in the Secretariat with recommendations duly certifying the eligibility after a personal inquiry in the individual cases with a copy to the Director of Social Justice. For more information, please refer to: Official Website: http://sjd.kerala.gov.in/scheme-info.php?scheme_id=NzRzVjh1cVIjdnk= Order/1995: http://sjd.kerala.gov.in/DOCUMENTS/Order_new/GOs/11544.pdf Order/Notice: http://sjd.kerala.gov.in/DOCUMENTS/Order_new/Internal%20Orders/15707.pdf Application Form: http://sjd.kerala.gov.in/DOCUMENTS/Downloadables/Application%20Forms/11543.pdf Tags associated with the scheme include: BPL, Differently Abled, Distress, Financial Assistance, Handicap, Medical Treatment, PwD.