The name of this welfare scheme is Free Distribution of Blankets and Chappals to Senior Citizen. It is also known as FDBCSC. The scheme “Free Distribution of Blankets and Chappals to Senior Citizen&quot; was launched by the Department of Social Welfare, Government of Puducherry. The objective of this scheme is to enable the poor senior citizens, aged 60 years and above and residing in Puducherry, to receive blankets and chappals. The applicant should be a recipient of Old Age Pension. The scheme targets beneficiaries such as Individual. It is specifically implemented in Puducherry. Additionally, the nodal department is Social Welfare Department, Puducherry.

The scheme provides the following benefits: One Blanket and One Pair of Chappals Every Year.

Eligibility criteria include: The applicant should be a Native/Resident of the Union Territory of Puducherry.
The age of the applicant should be 60 years or above.
The applicant should be a recipient of Old Age Pension. The application process is as follows: Step 1: The interested applicant should visit (during office hours) the Office/ SubOffice of the Department of Social Welfare, and request the hard copy of the prescribed format of the application form from the staff exclusively entrusted to issue and collect filledin applications.
OR
The interested applicant should take print of the prescribed format of the application form.
Step 2: In the application form, fill in all the mandatory fields, paste the passportsized photograph (signed across, if required), and attach copies of all the mandatory documents (selfattest, if required).
Step 3: Submit the duly filled and signed application form along with the documents to the authority given below Puducherry: The Deputy Director, Differently Abled Section, Directorate of Social Welfare. Karaikal: The Assistant Director, Social Welfare Department (Sub Office).Mahe / Yanam: The Welfare Officer (i\c), Social Welfare Department (Sub Office). 
Step 4: Request a receipt or acknowledgement from the concerned authority to whom the application has been submitted. Ensure that the receipt contains essential details such as the date and time of submission, and a unique identification number (if applicable). For more information, please refer to: Guidelines: https://socwelfare.py.gov.in/free-distribution-blankets-and-chappals-senior-citizensabove-60-years Citizen's Charter: https://socwelfare.py.gov.in/sites/default/files/citizen-charter.pdf Contact Us: https://socwelfare.py.gov.in/contact-us Sub Offices: https://socwelfare.py.gov.in/sub--office-social-welfare-department Grievance Redressal: https://pgportal.gov.in/ Track Your Application: https://edistrict.py.gov.in/User/TrackApplication.aspx Tags associated with the scheme include: Clothes, Senior Citizen, Social Welfare.