The name of this welfare scheme is Plant Protection including Integrated Pest Management Scheme. It is also known as IPM. The “Plant Protection including Integrated Pest Management (IPM) Scheme” is a State Plan Scheme, which is implemented by the Department of Agriculture &amp;amp; Farmers’ Welfare, Government of Meghalaya. The objective of the scheme is to mobilize and support farmers to use bio-pesticides and bio- agents for plant health management through the distribution of bio-pesticides and other IPM tools and through the sale of Sprayers and Plant Protection Equipment to encourage organic crop production. The scheme targets beneficiaries such as Individual. It is specifically implemented in Meghalaya. The implementing agency is Department Of Agriculture & Farmers’ Welfare, Government Of Meghalaya. Additionally, the nodal department is Agriculture Department.

The scheme provides the following benefits: > Pattern of Assistance:


Distribution of biopesticide and other IPM tools to farmers.
Sale of Sprayers and Plant Protection Equipment.

> Type of Assistance and Entitlement (If any):


Free distribution of Biopesticides and other IPM tools.
50% subsidy sale on Plant Protection Equipment.

Eligibility criteria include: The applicant should be a resident of Meghalaya.
The applicant should be a bonafide farmer engaged in agriculture. The application process is as follows: &gt; Application Process:

Step 01: The eligible bonafide farmers can apply/write an application on plain paper.
Step 02: Along with the application, attach copies of all the mandatory documents (selfattest, if required).
Step 03: Submit the duly filled and signed application along with the relevant documents at the nearest office of the Agriculture Development Officer of a CD Block/Agriculture Circle.
&gt; Mode of Selection of Beneficiary(s):

The bonafide farmers having sufficient available cultivable land shall be selected on a first come first served basis.
&gt; Whom to Contact:


   District Agriculture Officers of the concerned districts.
   SubDivisional Agricultural Officers of the concerned subdivisions.
   District Training Officers, Tura/Shillong.
   Agricultural Development Officers of the concerned Community and Rural Development Blocks. For more information, please refer to: Official Website: https://megagriculture.gov.in/PUBLIC/schemes_ShowSchemesA.aspx?schid=34 FAQs: https://megagriculture.gov.in/PUBLIC/dwd_docs/FAQONAGRICULTURESCHEMES.pdf Tags associated with the scheme include: Agriculture, Bio-pesticide, Farmer, IPM, Organic Crop, Pest Management, Plant Protection.