The name of this welfare scheme is Swachh Bharat Mission – Urban 2.0. It is also known as SBM - U. A sanitation scheme for the construction of Individual Household Latrines (IHHL) for urban households. The Mission has the following components:

   1. Household toilets, including conversion of insanitary latrines into pour-flush latrines.
   1. Community toilets
   1. Public toilets
   1. Solid waste management
   1. IEC &amp;amp; Public Awareness
   1. Capacity building and Administrative &amp;amp; Office Expenses (A&amp;amp;OE) The scheme targets beneficiaries such as Individual, Family. Additionally, the nodal ministry is Ministry Of Housing & Urban Affairs.

The scheme provides the following benefits: A Financial support of minimum

Rs 6667 (in Andhra Pradesh ,Bihar, Chhattisgarh ,Goa, Gujarat, Haryana, Jharkhand, Karnataka ,Kerala, Madhya Pradesh, Maharashtra ,Odisha, Punjab, Rajasthan, Tamil Nadu, Telangana, Uttar Pradesh, West Bengal), 
Rs 12,000 (in Uttarakhand, Himachal Pradesh, Arunachal Pradesh, Manipur, Meghalaya, Mizoram, Nagaland, Sikkim, Tripura, Assam) 
Rs 5333 (in Union Territories) is provided for Toilet Construction

Eligibility criteria include: Any household that does not have access to an individual household toilet ( 80% of urban households engaging in open defecation) or has an insanitary toilet. The application process is as follows: Applicant creates an Applicant Login ID by registering on IHHL using Name , Mobile Number ,  Email , Address , ID Type, ID Number.
After successful login the applicant enters the following details


In Geographical Particulars (State, District, ULB Name, Ward No.)
Toilet Owner’s Particulars (Name, Gender, Father/ Husband’s Name, Mobile No, Residential Address, Status of Existing Toilet, Aadhar Linked Transfer of Incentive, Aadhar Number, Bank Account Detail, Photograph)


After successful submission of Application, An IHHL Application Acknowledgement slip is generated with Application ID and Bank Account Detail For more information, please refer to: Scheme Guidelines: http://swachhbharaturban.gov.in/writereaddata/SBM_Guideline.pdf  User Manual: http://swachhbharaturban.gov.in/ihhl/writereaddata/UserManual_ToiletPhotoUpload_CSC_ULB_Applicant.pdf  Tags associated with the scheme include: Sanitation, Toilet.