The name of this welfare scheme is Ganga Kalyana Scheme. It is also known as GKS. This scheme is a fully subsidized scheme, bore wells, pumps and electrification are provided to minorities, and small farmers living in rural areas. The objective of the scheme is to provide irrigation through the exploitation of groundwater (bore wells and tube wells) for individuals and groups of beneficiaries belonging to Minority communities.
The applications for the Energization of these bore wells are registered by the KMDC at Electricity supply companies (ESCOMs) of the Energy Department. Energization of borewells is carried out by ESCOMs.
Irrigation facility is provided to the agricultural land through a lift irrigation scheme utilizing the perennial source of water (rivers) and lifting water through pipelines.
For the individual Bore well project, the government has allocated Rs 3.75 Lakhs for Bangalore Rural, Kolar, Chikkaballapur, Ramanagara, and Tumkur districts and Rs 2.25 Lakhs for other districts. The scheme targets beneficiaries such as Individual. It is specifically implemented in Karnataka. Additionally, the nodal department is Agricultural Marketing Department.

It falls under the categories: Agriculture,Rural & Environment.

Eligibility criteria include: The age limit of the applicant should be between 18 and 55 years.
The applicant must be a permanent resident of the State.
Applicants must belong to the State Religious Minority Community.
Family income from all sources should be within Rs.96,000  per annum.
Each beneficiary should have 1 acre 20 gunte (1 acre 50 cents) of an acre to 5 acres of dry land. In districts like Kodagu, Dakshina Kannada, Udupi, Uttara Kannada, Chikkamagaluru, Shimoga, and Hassan, the minimum land should be 1 acre as the availability of land is very less.
Applicants should be Small / Marginal farmers. For more information, please refer to: Guidelines: https://dom.karnataka.gov.in/vijayapura/public/page/ABOUT+US/Introduction/en Guidelines: User Manual https://kmdconline.karnataka.gov.in/Portal/home Guidelines: https://tumkur.nic.in/en/scheme/ganga-kalyana-scheme-g-k-s/