The name of this welfare scheme is Hostel Assistance Scheme for Children of Migrant Construction Workers (GBOCWWB). It is also known as HASCMCW(GBOCWWB). The “Hostel Assistance Scheme for Children of Migrant Construction Workers” is implemented by the Gujarat Building and Other Construction Worker’s Welfare Board (GBOCWWB), Labour, Skill Development &amp;amp; Employment Department, Government of Gujarat. Under the scheme, hostel facilities for free accommodation and meals shall be provided to the children of migrant construction workers in primary school. The objective of the scheme is to provide primary, secondary and higher education to the children of migrant construction workers. The scheme targets beneficiaries such as Individual. It is specifically implemented in Gujarat. The implementing agency is Department Of Labor And Employment, Secretariat, Gandhinagar. Additionally, the nodal department is Labour and Employment Department.

The scheme provides the following benefits: Under the scheme, children of migrant construction workers should be provided free accommodation in primary school.

Eligibility criteria include: The children of registered construction workers who are studying in the government primary and secondary schools of the district can avail the benefits under the scheme.
   The construction workers should be registered with the Gujarat Building and Other Construction Worker’s Welfare Board. The application process is as follows: To avail of the benefits under the scheme, the applicants need to visit the nearest office of the District Development Officer. For more information, please refer to: Official Website: https://bocwwb.gujarat.gov.in/schemes.htm Guidelines: https://bocwwb.gujarat.gov.in/Portal/Document/10_374_1_Hostel_Assistance_Scheme.pdf Scheme Details (Page No. 369): https://planning.gujarat.gov.in/images/pdf/dp-eng-22-23.pdf Tags associated with the scheme include: Building Worker, Construction Worker, Free Accommodation, Hostel, Labour, School.