The name of this welfare scheme is Motivation Of Unemployed Persons To Start Self-Employed Enterprises Scheme. It is also known as MUPSESE. The scheme “Motivation of Unemployed Persons To Start Self-Employed Enterprises Scheme (MUPSES)” was launched by the Union Territory of Puducherry in the year 2006 with a view to encouraging self-employment among the youth in manufacturing and service activities largely in support of the growing economy of the Union Territory of Puducherry.
Objective: To encourage unemployed persons in the U.T. of Puducherry to start self-employment in manufacturing or service sector enterprises.
Activities Covered: All economically viable service and industrial activities. Mechanized laundry, Beauty Parlour (Saloon), Tailoring units, and Setting up of Hygienic Tea / Coffee Stalls are presently encouraged under the scheme.
Project cost: Up to ₹2, 00,000/-.
Means of finance: Finance from Banks / Financial Institutions
Interest: Normal bank rate of interest on the date shall be charged. The scheme targets beneficiaries such as Individual. It is specifically implemented in Puducherry. The implementing agency is District Industries Centre, Union Territory Of Puducherry. Additionally, the nodal department is Industries and Commerce Department, Puducherry.

The scheme provides the following benefits: Under the scheme, the applicant may get a loan from ₹10,000/to ₹2,00,000/to set up a startup in the manufacturing and/or service sectors.
   50% of the project cost excluding preoperative and preliminary expenses will be granted as a subsidy for the projects not exceeding ₹50,000/35% of the project cost excluding preoperative and preliminary expenses to a maximum of ₹35,000 will be granted as a subsidy for project costs exceeding ₹50,000 but less than ₹00 lakhs.

Note: The amount of the Loan will be disbursed as soon as the beneficiary completes the formalities required by the Banks.

Eligibility criteria include: Unemployed Men and Women of the Union Territory of Puducherry are eligible to apply under the scheme.
The age of the applicant should be as per the existing norms of banks.
No formal education is required. However, the applicant should know to read and write fluently.
No limit on family income.
The applicant should be a permanent resident of the Union Territory of Puducherry for at least 3 years. The application process is as follows: Step 01: The eligible applicant needs to contact The Technical Officer, District Industries Centre, in their respective district of Puducherry.
Step 02: The applicant may download the application form from the Official Website.
Step 03: Fill out the application form completely and attached all the necessary documents.
Step 04: The completely filled application form shall be submitted on any working day during office hours to the office of nearest District Industries Centre in their respective district.
Step 05: Filled in applications received by the office will be scrutinized and applicant called for interview once in a quarter.
Step 06: The application of successful candidates will be forwarded to the respective banks for further action.
Step 07: The disbursement of loan will be done no sooner the beneficiary completes the formalities required by the banks in respect of his / her project. For more information, please refer to: Official Website: https://dic.py.gov.in/motivation-unemployed-persons-start-self-employed-enterprises Guideline: https://cdn.s3waas.gov.in/s3ddb30680a691d157187ee1cf9e896d03/uploads/2021/07/2021073044-1.pdf Tags associated with the scheme include: Enterprises, Loan, Motivation, Self-employment, Subsidy, Unemployed, Youth.