The name of this welfare scheme is Financial Assistance to Para/Tetra/Hemi Plegic Ex-Servicemen. It is also known as FAPPESM. The scheme &amp;quot;Financial Assistance to Para/Tetra/Hemi Plegic Ex-Serviceman&amp;quot; is implemented by the Sainik and Ardh Sainik Welfare Department, Government of Haryana. Under the scheme, financial assistance of ₹3,000/- per month shall be granted to Paraplegic, Tetraplegic, and Hemiplegic Ex-Servicemen who are bonafide residents of Haryana State and are not in receipt of any kind of financial assistance from any department of the Haryana Government. This financial assistance is admissible to eligible Paraplegic, Tetraplegic, and Hemiplegic Ex-Servicemen in addition to any disability pension from the Government of India, Ministry of Defence. The scheme targets beneficiaries such as Individual. It is specifically implemented in Haryana. The implementing agency is Sainik And Ardh Sainik Welfare Department, Government Of Haryana. Additionally, the nodal department is Sainik and Ardh Sainik Welfare Department.

The scheme provides the following benefits: Under the scheme, financial assistance of ₹3,000/per month is given to Para/Tetra/Hemi Plegic ExServiceman, with an annual increase of ₹400/w.e.f. 2017 every year in November.

Note: Subject to the condition that application/claim case is found in order financial assistance to the Paraplegic, Tetraplegic, or Hemiplegic ExServiceman will be sanctioned with effect from the first day of the following month in which case is sanctioned by the competent sanctioning authority.

Eligibility criteria include: The applicant should be a bonafide resident of Haryana.
   The applicant should be an ExServiceman with paraplegia, tetraplegia, or hemiplegia.
   In the case of Paraplegic, Tetraplegic, and Hemiplegic exservicemen of Haryana State financial assistance will be admissible to only those who are not fit to resettle in civil life on account of total incapacitation (100% disabled) and are penury.
   In the case of a Hemiplegic ExServiceman of Haryana State financial assistance will be admissible to only those who after 6 months of the attack of the deceased, do not recover and who are also declared 100% disabled on account of Hemiplegic disease by the Medical authorities even after 6 months of the attack of the disease.
   The financial assistance will not be admissible to those paraplegia, tetraplegia, or hemiplegia exservicemen who are admitted in paraplegic homes run by the Government of India or the State Government and are covered by grants to paraplegic homes.
   The applicant should not be in receipt of any kind of financial assistance from any department of the Haryana Government.

Note 1: The financial assistance is admissible to eligible paraplegia, tetraplegia, or hemiplegia exservicemen in addition to any disability pension from Govt. of India, Ministry of Defence.
Note 2: The old beneficiaries whose cases for grant of financial assistance have already been sanctioned prior to the issue of the guidelines shall continue to get the financial assistance at enhanced rates and they need not apply afresh. However, payment shall be discontinued with immediate effect who fail to submit their survival verification proofs every year from the revenue authorities.
Note 3: Payment of financial assistance to those beneficiaries shall also be stopped immediately who fail to submit their survival verification proofs every year from the revenue authorities in the month of April. 
Note 4: Every applicant shall have to produce a certificate issued by the concerned District Social Welfare Officer to the effect that the applicant is not getting any financial assistance/ Pension from the Social Justice &amp;amp; Empowerment Department of Haryana.
Note 5: If any beneficiary, after the sanction of the financial assistance under this scheme, is found drawing any type of financial assistance from any other Department of Haryana Government. He/she shall be permanently debarred from getting financial assistance under all schemes. The application process is as follows: Registration Process on AntyodayaSARAL Portal:
Step 1: The eligible applicant may apply online through the Official PortalAntyodayaSARAL Portal. 
Step 2: If the applicant is not registered on the portal, he/she gets registered there. 
Step 3: For registration, click “New User” under ‘Sign In Here’ and fill in all the mandatory details i.e. Name, Email ID, Mobile Number, Password &amp;amp; State. Click on ‘Submit’.
Step 4: Verify your mobile number and email ID through the received OTP and complete the registration process.
Login to apply for the scheme:
Step 1: To avail the benefits of the scheme, visit the Official AntyodayaSARAL Portal and log in through the email ID used while registering.
Step 2: Enter Password &amp;amp; Captcha and click on ‘Login’.
Step 3: After successful login, click on ‘Apply for Services’ and then ‘View all Available Services’.
Step 4: Now, you can search for the scheme and download the predefined documents form/template and you will need to upload the filledin/signed form/template in the &amp;#39;Attach Enclosures&amp;#39; screen.
Step 5: Click on ‘Proceed to Apply’ to fill out the application form. Enter your Parivar Pehchan Patra numberFamily ID and click on “Click here to Fetch Family Data” which displays the family members registered under the given Family ID.
Step 6: Select the beneficiary/applicant name and enter the OTP that is being sent to the selected family member for verification. Click on “Click to Verify”
Step 7: Fill in all the mandatory details and upload all the mandatory documents.
Step 8: Preview the application form and click on ‘Submit’.
Tracking of Application:
Applicants can track their applications through the Official AntyodayaSARAL Portal by entering their Department Name, Scheme Name, and Application Reference ID. 
Note: All the applications received by the Zila Sainik Boards will be scrutinized at the level of Zila Sainik Boards itself and the applications found fit for grant of F.A. will be forwarded with all relevant documents to Rajya Sainik Board with clear recommendation of Secretary, Zila Sainik Board. For more information, please refer to: Guidelines: https://csharyana.gov.in/WriteReadData/Policies/Defence%20III/2539.pdf Scheme Details: https://kms.saralharyana.nic.in/ViewDoc?Id=Ha6R+2zkDjDf+slCpPJPSQ%3d%3d Notification: https://csharyana.gov.in/WriteReadData/Instructions/Defence%20III/5780.pdf Antyodaya-SARAL Portal: https://saralharyana.gov.in/ Tags associated with the scheme include: Ex-Serviceman, Financial Assistance, Hemi Plegic, Para Plegic, Tetra Plegic.