The name of this welfare scheme is Pradhan Mantri Kaushal Vikas Yojana - Short Term Training. It is also known as PMKVY -STT. STT component imparted at PMKVY Training Centres (TC) is expected to benefit candidates of Indian nationality who are either school/college dropouts or unemployed. Apart from providing training according to the National Skills Qualification Framework (NSQF), TCs also impart training in soft skills, entrepreneurship, financial and digital literacy. Upon successful completion of assessment, candidates are provided placement assistance by training providers.


The Short-Term Training (STT) shall be implemented under both Central and State component of the scheme. STT shall have provision for both fresh skilling for trainees who are first time learners and reskilling for the trainees/existing workforce who have already undergone formal/informal skilling and need additional skill sets


Apart from providing training according to the National Skills Qualification Framework (NSQF), additional training shall also be imparted in English, Employability &amp; Entrepreneurship (EEE) modules. Process shall be initiated for imparting add-on Bridge courses and language courses for making schemes compatible to international standards and requirements. This will enhance the potential for international employment of the Indian youth


Duration of the training shall vary as per job role


The scheme shall promote fee-based courses in higher level skills and courses that are NSQF level 5 and above. Review of the courses under PMKVY 3.0 shall be carried out for introducing fees in popular courses with higher industry demand and above average wages. However, PMKVY 3.0 would continue to support weaker and marginalized sections of the society The scheme targets beneficiaries such as Individual. Additionally, the nodal ministry is Ministry Of Skill Development And Entrepreneurship.

It falls under the categories: Business & Entrepreneurship, Skills & Employment.

Eligibility criteria include: This scheme is applicable to any candidate of Indian nationality who:



Is aged between 1545 years
Possesses an Aadhaar card and an Aadhaar linked bank account
Fulfils other criteria for the respective job role as defined by the awarding body For more information, please refer to: Scheme Guidelines: https://www.pmkvyofficial.org/photos/shares/guidlines/PMKY-Guideline_report_(08-01-2021)V3.pdf  Tags associated with the scheme include: Counselling, Dropout, Kaushal, Placement, Skill, Training, Unemployed, Vikas.