The name of this welfare scheme is Food Bill Assistance to SC Students. It is also known as FBASCS. The “Food Bill Assistance to SC Students” scheme is administered by the Director, Scheduled Caste Welfare, Government of Gujarat. Under the scheme, financial assistance is provided to the Scheduled Caste (SC) students who are admitted in college affiliated hostels for food bill. The students will be eligible for food bill assistance up to 10 months in a year. The scheme targets beneficiaries such as Individual. It is specifically implemented in Gujarat. The implementing agency is District Deputy Director (SCW) Office, Gujarat. Additionally, the nodal department is Social Justice and Empowerment Department.

The scheme provides the following benefits: The food bill assistance @ ₹1,500/per month (Up to 10 Months) will be granted to the Scheduled Caste (SC) students admitted in college affiliated hostels.

Eligibility criteria include: The student should belong to the Scheduled Caste of Gujarat.
The students should reside in the hostel, affiliated to the college.
The annual family income of the student should be up to ₹6 lakhs. The application process is as follows: &gt; Application Process for Scheme Benefit:

Step 01: The applicant may visit the Digital Gujarat Portal: https://www.digitalgujarat.gov.in/
Step 02: On the home page, click on ‘Register’ and the applicant will be redirected to the registration form page.
Step 03: Enter your Mobile Number, Email, Set Password, and then click on ‘Save’.
Step 04: After successful registration, the applicant can login through his/her User Name (Mobile No./Email ID) and Password.
Step 05: Now, click on ‘My Profile’ to update your profile and fill in all the mandatory information.
Step 06: After filling in profile details, click on ‘Update Profile’. The profile will be updated after entering the verification Code (OTP).
Step 07: Now under services, select ‘Scholarship Services’ and then click on ‘SC Scheme’.
Step 08: Select the Financial Year in which you want to apply for and then click on ‘Change Financial Year’.
Step 09: Select the scheme, read the interaction carefully, and then click on ‘Continue to Service’.
Step 10: Fill in the application form completely and upload all the relevant documents.
Step 11: Now, click on ‘Save as Draft’ and agree with the terms &amp;amp; conditions, and submit the application form by clicking on ‘Confirm &amp;amp; Final Submit’. 
&gt; Instructions:

Note 01: Photo uploading for all applicants is mandatory.
Note 02: The application will be considered complete only when all sections are completed.
Note 03: Only one application per applicant will be acceptable for the Food Bill. If any student submits more than one application either from a single institute or from multiple institutions his/her all applications will be rejected by the competent authority and no request from any side will be entertained.
Note 04: In case of any wrong/misleading information provided in the application shall lead to rejection of the application by Department Authorities.
Note 05: All required documents must be carefully scanned as per the instructions given.
Note 06: The student has to fill his/her application carefully as there is no provision for institution change once the application is submitted successfully.
Note 07: The unreadable uploaded documents will allow the competent authority to reject student applications.
Note 08: Direct Individual submission of this application form will not be accepted in case of students studying inside the state.

  User ManualEnglish  User Manual Gujarati For more information, please refer to: Official Website: https://sje.gujarat.gov.in/dscw/schemes/1527?lang=English Scheme Details (Page No. 88): https://sje.gujarat.gov.in/downloads/subplan_1920.pdf Scheme Details (Page No. 444): https://planning.gujarat.gov.in/images/pdf/dp-eng-22-23.pdf Digital Gujarat Portal: https://www.digitalgujarat.gov.in/ Tags associated with the scheme include: Financial Assistance, Food Bill, Hostel, SC, Student.