The name of this welfare scheme is State Marriage Assistance Scheme For Poor Girls. It is also known as SMASPG. A social welfare scheme by the Social Welfare Department of the Government of Jammu &amp; Kashmir, for Poor Girls of Marriageable Age who belong to either AAY (Antyodaya Anna Yojana) or PHH (Priority Households) ration card holder families. Through this scheme, they shall be paid one-time financial assistance @ ₹50,000/- (rupees fifty thousand only) for getting married. The financial assistance shall have to be paid before her marriage. The financial assistance shall be directly transferred into the individual bank accounts of the beneficiaries (marriageable girls) through DBT mode. The receipt of applications as well as the transfer of assistance shall be in online mode only. The District Social Welfare Officer  (DSWO) shall verify the details of the beneficiary regarding her marital status &amp; age and shall submit the case before the Deputy Commissioner along with all requisite documents and his/her recommendations. The Deputy Commissioner shall sanction the financial assistance in favor of the beneficiary girl after determining the eligibility, and reasonably satisfying himself/herself about the genuineness of the case. The scheme is operational in all the districts across the Union Territory of Jammy and Kashmir. The scheme targets beneficiaries such as Individual. It is specifically implemented in Jammu and Kashmir. Additionally, the nodal department is Department Of Industries and Commerce.

It falls under the categories: Social welfare & Empowerment, Women and Child.

Eligibility criteria include: The applicant must be a female.
The applicant must be of marriageable age, i.e. 18 years or above (Legal Age for Marriage in India).
The applicant must be from either AAY (Antyodaya Anna Yojana) or PHH (Priority Households) ration card holder families.
The applicant must not have availed the financial benefit for the same purpose under any other UT/Centrally Sponsored Scheme, especially Ladli Beti Scheme. She can avail of benefits only once under the scheme.
The applicant must have applied at least one month in advance (before the date of marriage) to the concerned District Social Welfare Officer along with proof of marriage, proof of age, copy of AAY or PHH ration card, and Aadhaar card.
The minimum qualification of the beneficiary girl has to be 8th Pass or equivalent. However, in the case of school dropouts, the following guidelines shall apply:

a)    During the next three years i.e., from the financial year, 20222023 to 20242025 restructured guidelines shall be implemented irrespective of the education status of the beneficiary girl.
b)    From 01042025 onwards beneficiary girl has to compulsorily produce a certificate for having passed 8th Class or equivalent. For more information, please refer to: Guidelines: https://jkdswdj.jk.gov.in/pdf/New%20Guidelines%20of%20SMAS.pdf Tags associated with the scheme include: Financial Assistance, Marriage.