The name of this welfare scheme is Utility Based Handicrafts Award. It is also known as UBHA. The &quot;Utility Based Handicrafts Award&quot; scheme was launched by the Handlooms, Handicrafts, Textiles, and Khadi Department, Government of Tamil Nadu. The scheme aims to encourage artisans to produce utility based handicrafts. This award will be given to 3 artisans. This award consists of a cash prize of ₹40,000/-, a 4 gm gold medal, one thamirapattiram and a certificate. The applicant applies through poompucar sales and manufacturing plant managers. The scheme targets beneficiaries such as Individual. It is specifically implemented in Tamil Nadu. Additionally, the nodal department is Handlooms, Handicrafts and Textiles Department.

The scheme provides the following benefits: Cash Prize of ₹40,000/.
4 gm gold medal.
One Thamirapattiram. 
Certificate.

Eligibility criteria include: The applicant should be an artisan.
The applicant should be a native of Tamil Nadu.
The applicant should be a manufacturer of handicrafts in Tamil Nadu.
The applicant should possess proficiency in Tamil and must be a contributor to Tamil literature.
The applicant should use nontoxic and nonpolluting craft materials for this award. The application process is as follows: Advertisements are released in June every year.
Step 1: The interested applicant should take print of the prescribed format of the application form.
Step 2: In the application form, fill in all the mandatory fields, paste the passportsized photograph (signed across, if required), and attach copies of all the mandatory documents (selfattest, if required).
Step 3: Submit the duly filled and signed application form along with the documents (during office hours) to the Head Office only through Poompucar Sales and Manufacturing Plant Managers.
Step 4: Request a receipt or acknowledgment from the concerned authority to whom the application has been submitted. Ensure that the receipt contains essential details such as the date and time of submission, and a unique identification number (if applicable).
NOTE: The award material should be sent with the application. For more information, please refer to: Citizen Charter (2021): https://poompuhar.com/tnhdc/downloads/1631599064753734262.pdf Application Form: https://poompuhar.com/tnhdc/downloads/16966673571971772521.pdf Tags associated with the scheme include: Artisans, Award, Handicrafts, Manufacturer, Prize.