The name of this welfare scheme is Disable Marriage Scheme (Divyang Lagna Sahay). It is also known as DMA(DLS). The scheme &amp;quot;Disable Marriage Scheme&amp;quot; was launched by the Director Social Defence, Department of Social Justice &amp;amp; Empowerment, Government of Gujarat. Under this scheme, financial assistance is provided to persons with disabilities when a person with a disability marries another person with a disability, as well as when a non-disabled person marries someone with a disability. The scheme targets beneficiaries such as Individual. It is specifically implemented in Gujarat. The implementing agency is Office Of The District Social Defence Officer, Gujarat. Additionally, the nodal department is Social Justice and Empowerment Department.

The scheme provides the following benefits: Under this scheme, when two individuals with disabilities marry each other, the couple is entitled to a total assistance of ₹1,00,000/, equating to ₹50,000/per person.
   If a person without disabilities marries someone with a disability, the individual with a disability is eligible to receive assistance of ₹50,000/.

Eligibility criteria include: The age of the girl should be above 18 years and the age of the boy should be above 21 years.
   The benefit of this scheme will be available only once (one time per couple).
   Under this scheme, the application has to be made within two years of marriage.
   Under this scheme, benefits are given as per the percentage of disability mentioned in the table below:

Sl. No.Type of DisabilityPercentage of Disability1Blindness, low vision, hereditary muscular dystrophy, leprosycured, acid attack victims, amblyopia, cerebral palsy, dwarfism, multiple sclerosishardening disorder   40% or more
2Hearing impairment 71% to 100%3Chronic neurological conditions, generalized trauma, malignant haemorrhage, tremor, muscular rigidity, intellectual disability, reduced hemoglobin content, chronic anemia, mental illness, special learning disabilities, speech and language impairment, neurodevelopmental impairment, multiple disabilities    50% or more
Note: In the case of a differentlyabled applicant marrying a differentlyabled woman from another state, both the differentlyabled spouses will be eligible to get the benefit of this scheme on the production of the prescribed proof. Further, the District Social Defence Officer will have to obtain an undertaking from the applicant that the female beneficiary has not received disability marriage assistance from her state. The application process is as follows: Step 01: The eligible applicant may visit the eSamaj Kalyan Portal: https://esamajkalyan.gujarat.gov.in/
Step 02: On the home page, under the tab ‘Citizen Login’, click on New User ‘Please Register Here’.
Step 03: Enter your Full Name as per Aadhaar Card, Gender, Date of Birth, Aadhaar Card Number, Email ID, Caste etc. and then click on ‘Register’.
Step 04: After successful registration, the applicants can login through their User ID and Password.
Step 05: Now, click on ‘User Profile’ to update your profile.
Step 06: Fill in all the mandatory information and then click on ‘Update’. 
Step 07: After updating the profile successfully, select the scheme appearing on the home page; an application form will open.
Step 08: Fill in all the mandatory details in the application form and upload all the relevant documents.
Step 09: Now agree with the terms &amp;amp; conditions and click on ‘Save Application’.
Step 10: Submit the application form and take out the print of the application for future reference. The applicant can note down the application number to track the application status by logging into the portal using their User ID and Password.
Note 01: In the case of marriage of a person with a disability residing in two different districts, the application for availing the benefit under the scheme has to be made by the couple in the district of permanent residence of the Divyang couple after marriage.
Note 02: The District Social Defence Officer of the district which approved the application has to inform the District Social Defence Officer of the other district about the approval of the application.
User Manual For more information, please refer to: Official Website: https://sje.gujarat.gov.in/dsd/scheme/lagna-sahay-yojana Scheme Details: https://esamajkalyan.gujarat.gov.in/index.aspx?ServiceID=e+CNv1+6oej68yP1H8sZBw== Scheme Details (Page No. 473): https://planning.gujarat.gov.in/images/pdf/dp-eng-23-24.pdf E-samaj Kalyan Portal: https://esamajkalyan.gujarat.gov.in/ Tags associated with the scheme include: Divyang, Financial Assistance, Marriage, PwD.