The name of this welfare scheme is Subsidy Scheme On Establishment Of 40 R.I.R. Birds Unit For Divyang People. It is also known as SSE40RBUDP. The scheme “Subsidy Scheme on Establishment of 40 R.I.R. Birds Unit for Divyang People” was launched by the Department of Agriculture, Farmers Welfare &amp;amp; Co-operation, Government of Gujarat to provide employment, nutritious diet and to raise the income of Divyang People of the society of Gujarat State. Under this scheme, the beneficiary will be given 40 R.I.R birds unit along with poultry feed and a subsidy will be given 90% of the cost of the scheme (maximum ₹7200/- in form birds and poultry feed).
Terms and conditions of the scheme:-

- Eligible applications will be sanctioned by Regional Joint Director.
- As and when birds get infected, they should be given treatment immediately.
- As and when the Government officer visits the farm the beneficiary will have to show income and expenditure statement.
- In normal cases, the unit will have to maintain for two years.
- In all terms and conditions, the final authority will be the Director of Animal Husbandry, Gujarat State, Gandhinagar. The scheme targets beneficiaries such as Individual. It is specifically implemented in Gujarat. The implementing agency is Intensive Poultry Development Project Office, District Poultry Extension Centre. Additionally, the nodal department is Agriculture, Farmers Welfare and Cooperation Department.

The scheme provides the following benefits: The beneficiary will be given 40 R.I.R birds unit along with poultry feed.
The subsidy will be given 90% of the unit cost of the scheme (maximum ₹7200/in the form of birds and poultry feed).
Under the scheme, the birds will be given vaccination regularly.

Eligibility criteria include: The benefits of this scheme will only be given to the adult of Divyang people of the society of Gujarat State.
The beneficiary will have to provide income proof along with the application.
Females and beneficiaries below poverty line will be given priority.
The beneficiary should have taken poultrykeeping training.
The beneficiary will have to manage to keep the birds safe during night hours. The application process is as follows: Step 01: The applicant needs to visit the nearest Intensive Poultry Development Project Office or District Poultry Extension Centre and collect the application form.
Step 02: Fill in all the mandatory fields of the application form, attach all the (selfattested) required documents, and submit it to the designated receiving authority.
Step 03: After successful verification, the applicant can avail the benefit of the scheme. For more information, please refer to: Guideline: https://doah.gujarat.gov.in/Images/animalhusbandary/pdf/English-Poultry-Development-web.pdf Tags associated with the scheme include: Divyang, Employment, Poultry Farming, Rhode Island Red (RIR), Subsidy.