The name of this welfare scheme is Chief Minister’s Health Insurance Scheme - Nagaland. It is also known as CMHISN. Detailed 
The Chief Minister Health Insurance Scheme (CMHIS) in Nagaland is a health insurance scheme that provides financial protection to the citizens of the state against the cost of hospitalization and medical treatment. The scheme is aimed at providing health insurance coverage to the citizens of Nagaland, especially those who are economically weaker and unable to afford quality healthcare services.
Under the CMHIS scheme, eligible beneficiaries are provided with health insurance coverage of up to INR 2 lakh per family per year. The scheme covers the cost of hospitalization, surgical procedures, diagnostic tests, and other medical expenses incurred during the treatment of an illness or injury. The scheme also provides coverage for pre-existing conditions, maternity benefits, and ambulance charges. The scheme targets beneficiaries such as Individual. It is specifically implemented in Nagaland. Additionally, the nodal department is Health and Family Welfare Department, Nagaland.

It falls under the categories: Banking,Financial Services and Insurance, Health & Wellness.

Eligibility criteria include: Eligibility 
The Chief Minister Health Insurance Scheme is available to all permanent and indigenous residents of Nagaland. They are divided into two categories CMHIS (GEN) and CMHIS (EP).


Eligible under CMHIS (GEN) Category

CMHIS (GEN) category includes all Indigenous and/or Permanent residents of the State who are not beneficiaries under the AB PMJAY or any other publicly funded health insurance scheme of the government and who are not covered under the CMHIS (EP) category.
CMHIS (GEN) category also includes nondependant family members of CMHIS (EP) categories, employees without PIMS number, contractual, adhoc, fixed pay employees of the State government and contractual employees under various CSS, and their household members.



Eligible under CMHIS (EP) Category

CMHIS (EP) category includes State government employees who are eligible for monthly Medical Allowance (MA) and or reimbursement of medical expenses under the Medical Reimbursement scheme viz 


Regular employees, 
Pensioners, 
Serving Legislators/ ExLegislators, 
Employees of State Public Sector Undertakings, Corporations and Autonomous Bodies, 
Workcharge employees (on Scale Pay), and their dependent family members. For more information, please refer to: Official Site: https://cmhis.nagaland.gov.in/ Registration: https://cmhis.nagaland.gov.in/login Tags associated with the scheme include: Affordable Health Insurance, Cashless Health Insurance, Health Coverage, Health Insurance, Nagaland, Nagaland Government Health Insurance.