The name of this welfare scheme is Swaran Jayanti Guru Darshan Yatra Scheme 2016. It is also known as SJGDYS2016. The scheme “Swaran Jayanti Guru Darshan Yatra Scheme 2016” was launched by the Tourism Department, Government of Haryana on 12th July 2016. The government of Haryana launched the scheme for Sri Hazoor Sahib Gurudwara (Nanded Sahib), Sri Nankana Sahib, Sri Hemkunt Sahib, and Sri Patna Sahib to provide financial assistance to the pilgrims of the State of Haryana. Under the scheme, financial assistance shall be provided to a maximum of 50 (fifty) numbers of pilgrims who are residents of Haryana and have completed the “Swaran Jayanti Guru Darshan Yatra” through the State Government/Centre Government/Society. This scheme will be commenced w.e.f. 1st April 2016 and financial assistance will be provided to those applicants who complete the Yatra after this date. The scheme targets beneficiaries such as Individual. It is specifically implemented in Haryana. The implementing agency is Tourism Department, Government Of Haryana. Additionally, the nodal department is Tourism Department.

The scheme provides the following benefits: The financial assistance will be provided up to the extent of ₹6,000/or 50% of the actual expenditure per person, whichever is less.
   The financial assistance shall be provided to a maximum of 50 (fifty) numbers of pilgrims.

Eligibility criteria include: The applicant/pilgrim should be a permanent resident of the Haryana State.
   The applicant/pilgrim should complete the Yatra through the State Govt./Central Govt./Society and the completion certificate in this regard must be submitted by the State/Central Govt./Society.
   Financial assistance shall be given only once to a pilgrim. The application process is as follows: Step 01: A pilgrim who has completed the “Swaran Jayanti Guru Darshan Yatra” shall submit the application within two months after completion of the Yatra through the State/Central Govt./Society.
Step 02: The application form in the prescribed format (Annexure “A”) shall be required to be submitted to the Director of the Tourism Department, Haryana along with all the relevant documents.
Step 03: After scrutiny of the documents received from the State/Central Govt./Society the Director of Tourism Department, Haryana shall submit the same within 15 (fifteen) days to the Administrative Secretary Government of Haryana, Tourism Department for approval.
Step 04: Thereafter, the requisite sanction shall be issued for payment for financial assistance through a Demand Draft. Apply for Scheme: Registration Process on AntyodayaSARAL Portal:
Step 01: To avail of the benefits of the scheme, the applicant needs to visit Official Portal AntyodayaSARAL Portal
Step 02: If the applicant is not registered on the portal, then he/she gets registered on the portal. 
Step 03: For registration, click on “New User/Register Here” and fill in all the mandatory details i.e. Name, Email ID, Mobile Number &amp;amp; password. Click on ‘Submit’.
Step 04: Applicant will receive the login ID on their mobile number.
Login to Apply for the Scheme:
Step 01: Visit the Official Portal AntyodayaSARAL Portal
Step 02: The “Sign in here” option is available on the right side of the screen. Applicant needs to fill in their credentials and click on the ‘Login’ button.
Step 03: In the opened window, click on “Scheme/Services list” and a list of schemes will appear on the screen.
Step 04: Now, select the scheme and click on “Apply for Service/Scheme”.
Step 05: Fill in all the details asked in the online application form and submit the application form. For more information, please refer to: Notification: https://haryanatourism.gov.in/WriteReadData/downloads/e_sawaran.pdf Official Website: https://haryanatourism.gov.in/News/swaran-jayanti-swaran-jayanti-guru-darshan-yatra-scheme--2016 Scheme Details: https://kms.saralharyana.nic.in/ViewDoc?Id=jsXjD5RE+y%2fJgeRmulMNSw%3d%3d Tags associated with the scheme include: Financial Assistance, Gurudwara, Pilgrims, Tourism, Yatra.