The name of this welfare scheme is Sudakshya For Girls Child Scholarship. It is also known as SFGCS. Many girl students left their academics after 10th due to various reasons. To encourage girls towards technical education, a new initiative has been started by the Odisha government. The name of the initiative is Sudakshya for Girls Child Scholarship. The scheme is run by officials under the guidelines of the Skill Development &amp;amp; Technical Education Department, Government of Odisha.
Sudakshya for Girls Child Scholarship is specially designed for the General/ ST/ SC/ OBC/ SEBC/ EBC category girl child of Odisha state. under this scholarship scheme, the government is going to provide financial help to the students. Girl students who win the award will get cash benefits. The scholarship is only for girls who are pursuing ITI courses in any trade. The scheme targets beneficiaries such as Individual. It is specifically implemented in Odisha. The implementing agency is Skill Development & Technical Education Department, Government Of Odisha. Additionally, the nodal department is Skill Development and Technical Education Department. Odisha.

The scheme provides the following benefits: Reimbursement of Admission and Hostel Fee.
   Maintenance Allowances will be given of ₹1500/per month for Hosteller and @Rs500/for Day Scholar.
   Reimbursable cost of uniform ₹3000/.
   Maintenance Allowances@₹1000/per month for Apprenticeship Training after ITI inside the state and ₹1500/per month for outside the state.
   1 Month Maintenance Allowances of ₹5000/after completion of 6 months on Jobs outside the State.

Note 01: Benefits will be directly transferred to the bank account of the student.
Note 02: Maintenance Allowances shall be released on a halfyearly basis.
Note 03: ST, SC, OBC, Minority, Children of BOC Workers, PwD, MCP, Merit, and other stipend/scholarship holders will get differential amounts only.

Eligibility criteria include: The applicant should be a resident of Odisha state.
The applicant should be a girl child.
Applicant should belong to the General/ST/SC/OBC/SEBC/EBC category.
Applicant should be pursuing I.T.I. / I.T.C., Polytechnic/ Diploma courses. The application process is as follows: To apply for the scholarship students, have to go to the [official website]() of the state scholarship portal.Select the registration option which is available at the top of the page.
Read the details, tick the checkbox, and choose I Agree on the option.
Further read, tick the checkbox, and select the proceed button.
Enter the Aadhaar number and select Verify.
Enter the OTP and mention further details.
Select the register option and log in with the portal.
Go to the apply button and select the scholarship scheme.
Fill out the application form open on the screen.
Mention all the significant details and upload the documents.
Review the application and submit it.
Take a printout at last for further use. For more information, please refer to: Details: https://scholarship.odisha.gov.in/website/scholarship-details Tags associated with the scheme include: Girl, ITI, Scholarship, Student, Sudakshya.