The name of this welfare scheme is Bidya Lakshmi Loan. It is also known as BLL. Detailed 
In pursuance of the announcement made in the Budget Speech, 2016-17, the Government of Assam has taken a decision to provide higher education loans for the children of State Government Employees of all categories, The Governor of Assam is pleased to formulate the following guidelines and procedures. 

   1. The State Government will provide a loan of Rs.5.00 lakh to Rs. 10.00 lakh at an interest rate of 4% . This was proposed in view of the financial hardship usually faced by State Government employees towards the cost of higher studies.
   1. The proposed interest rate for employees with annual income up to Rs.4.50 lakh is eligible under the Credit Linked subsidy Scheme  (CL.SS) where  100%  CLSS subsidy will be provided by the  Central Government guideline during the moratorium period i.e. course period plus one year.  After the moratorium period with  State   Government interest subvention, the effective rate of interest will be  @  4% for the employees under the CLSS category.
   1. The employees are free to take loans over and above Rs.10.00 lakh from the SBI.  however,  the interest subvention on the loan from the State Government along with another concession will be limited to Rs.10.00 lakh. The market rate of interest and other collateral securities as required by  SBI will also be applicable for the amount of loan availed above Rs.10.00 lakh.

&lt;br&gt;

Quantum Of Fiance 
Need-based finance is subject to repaying capacity of the parents/students with margin and the following ceilings

  - Studies in India - Maximum Rs. 10.00 lakh.
  - Studies Abroad - Maximum Rs. 10.00 lakh.

&lt;br&gt;

Security

  - Upto Rs. 10.00 lakh: No Collateral Security or third-party guarantee.
  -  Parents will be co-borrower in all cases under the scheme.

&lt;br&gt;

Rate Of Interest

  - For all loans upto Rs. 10 lacs: 1 year MCLR + 1%.
  - Concession of 0.50% for girl students.
  - 1% rebate at the time of closure of loan, if interest is serviced during course and moratorium period.

Note Effective ROI not to bé below 1 year MCLR at any point of time
&lt;br&gt;

Moratorium

  - Course period + 1 year.

&lt;br&gt;

Repayment	Period

  - Up to 15 years after the commencement of repayment.
  - The accrued interest during the moratorium period/ repayment holiday period for loans up to Rs 10.00 lacs will be recovered on the month to month basis.

&lt;br&gt;

Processing Charge

  - No processing/ upfront charges may be collected on educational loans

&lt;br&gt;

Interest Subvention from Govt of Assam

   1. Govt. of Assam will provide a need-based subsidy to keep the effective rate of interest at 4.0%.
   1. The Govt. of Assam subsidy will be available for loans up to Rs. 10.00 lakhs. In case of a loan of more than Rs 10.00 lakhs interest subsidy will be available on loan amounts up to Rs 10.00 lakhs.
   1. The Interest Subvention Scheme of the Assam State Government will be available for the entire loan tenure.
   1. Where Central Govt. interest subsidy during the moratorium will be available, the Govt. of Assam subvention will be provided after the completion of the moratorium period.

&lt;br&gt; The scheme targets beneficiaries such as Individual. It is specifically implemented in Assam. Additionally, the nodal department is Finance Department.

It falls under the categories: Education & Learning.

Eligibility criteria include: Eligibility 

Students :

Secured admission to Professional/ Technical courses as stated in the item number. 
Students who have failed in the last qualifying examination including class XII will not be considered.
Only the wards of employees of Govt. of Assam presently inservice will be eligible.


Parents :


Employees of State Government of Assam with Check off facility.
Should have at least 5 years of residual pensionable service.
Ready to undertake to repay the loan amount even if a student fails to secure a job after completion of the course.
In case of retirement during the currency of the loan, he will opt to draw Pension through SBI at least until the loan is liquidated. For more information, please refer to: Guidelines: https://finance.assam.gov.in/documents-detail/bidya-lakshmi-loan-for-higher-education-of-the-children-of-regular-state-government Application Forms: https://finance.assam.gov.in/sites/default/files/Application%20Form%20for%20Education%20Loan-ilovepdf-compressed.pdf Tags associated with the scheme include: Bidya, Higher Education, Lakshmi.