The name of this welfare scheme is Integrated Social Security Scheme: Old Age Pension. It is also known as ISSSOAP. The scheme &amp;quot;Old Age Pension (OAP)&amp;quot; is a sub-component of the “Integrated Social Security Scheme (IGSSS)” implemented by the Social and Tribal Welfare Department, Administration of Union Territory of Ladakh. Under this scheme, pension is provided to old aged persons males (60 years &amp;amp; above) and females (55 and above) and who are destitute in the sense of having no means of subsistence from their own source of income or through financial support from family members or other sources. The scheme targets beneficiaries such as Individual. It is specifically implemented in Ladakh. The implementing agency is Directorate Of Social & Tribal Welfare, Administration Of Union Territory Of Ladakh. Additionally, the nodal department is Social and Tribal Welfare Department.

The scheme provides the following benefits: Amount of pension:  ₹1,000/per month per beneficiary

Eligibility criteria include: The applicant should be a permanent resident of the Union Territory of Ladakh.
   The applicant should belong to the Below Poverty Line (BPL) Category.
   The applicant’s age should be 60 years and above for males and 55 years and above for females.
   The applicant should have no means of subsistence from their own source of income or through financial support from family members or other sources. The application process is as follows: &gt; Registration Process:

Step 1: Visit the ‘Ladakh ESeva Platform’ and navigate to the “Go Live Services” tab on the right side of the screen. Select the ISSS scheme under the &amp;#39;Social Welfare&amp;#39; section.
Step 2: Click on the &amp;#39;Registration&amp;#39; tab in the right corner of the screen.
Step 3: Read the instructions carefully and fill in all the required information accurately. Upload the Passportsize scan photo (jpg image) in a clear background of size less than 50 kB. 
Step 4: Note the User ID and Password after successful registration for future reference.
&gt; Login to apply for the scheme benefits:

Step 1: To apply under the scheme, visit the ‘Ladakh ESeva Platform’ again and navigate to the “Go Live Services” tab on the right side of the screen. Select the ISSS scheme under the &amp;#39;Social Welfare&amp;#39; section.
Step 2: Enter your login credentials (Login ID and Password generated after registration), select &amp;quot;User Role&amp;quot; as &amp;quot;Citizen,&amp;quot; enter the Captcha, and click on &amp;quot;Submit&amp;quot;. 
Step 3: After Login, the applicant has to click on the “Eservices” tab in the left menu.
Step 4: Click on the “Department of Social &amp;amp; Tribal Welfare” and select ‘Old Age Pension’ under “Integrated Social Security Scheme”
Step 5: Fill in the required details accurately and upload the mandatory documents then click on Submit to complete the application process. &gt; Application Process:

Step 1: Visit the office of the concerned Tehsil Social Welfare Officer (TSWO) and collect the application form, which is available free of cost.
Step 2: Fill in all the required information accurately and legibly.
Step 3: Enclose all the mandatory documents (selfattested, if required) with the application.
Step 4: Submit the application to the TSWO and request a proper receipt acknowledging the submission.
&gt; PostApplication Process:

•	The concerned TSWO consolidates the list of eligible applicants under the scheme and forwards it to the concerned District Social Welfare Officer for arrangement of funds and accord of sanction by a designated District level Sanctioning Committee headed by the Director Social Welfare Department, UT Ladakh.
Note: In case, the pension is not received by the 8th of every month, beneficiaries are requested to raise a complaint either via email or physically at the following address:
Email: directorsocialwelfareladakh@gmail.com
Address:
Directorate of Social and Tribal Welfare,
Ground Floor, Council Secretariat,
Kurbathang, Kargil For more information, please refer to: Notification: https://cdnbbsr.s3waas.gov.in/s395192c98732387165bf8e396c0f2dad2/uploads/2023/06/2023060595.pdf Official Website: https://socialwelfare.ladakh.gov.in/schemes.php Ladakh E-Seva Platform: https://eseva.ladakh.gov.in/ladakheservices Tags associated with the scheme include: BPL, ISSS, Old Age, Pension.