The name of this welfare scheme is Farmers Training Institute Scheme. It is also known as FTIS. The “Farmers Training Institute Scheme” is a State Plan Scheme, which is implemented by the Department of Agriculture &amp;amp; Farmers’ Welfare, Government of Meghalaya. The objective of the scheme is to provide training to farmers at the village level on updated and innovative agriculture technology. The Training Institute facilitates exposure visits for farmers to agriculturally advanced states. The Scheme also facilitates exposure visits for farmers within and outside the State. The scheme targets beneficiaries such as Individual. It is specifically implemented in Meghalaya. The implementing agency is Department Of Agriculture & Farmers’ Welfare, Government Of Meghalaya. Additionally, the nodal department is Agriculture Department.

The scheme provides the following benefits: > Pattern of Assistance:


Farmers are imparted specialised training at the center including in the farmers&#39; field.
Exposure programmes and field tours are also conducted for farmers&#39; groups.

> Type of Assistance and Entitlement (If any):


  Assist in Training and capacity building and sponsoring Progressive/Award winning farmers for Exposure trips within/outside the State.

Eligibility criteria include: The applicant should be a resident of Meghalaya.
The applicant should be a bonafide farmer engaged in agriculture. The application process is as follows: &gt; Application Process:

Step 01: The eligible bonafide farmers can apply/write an application on plain paper.
Step 02: Along with the application, attach copies of all the mandatory documents (selfattest, if required).
Step 03: Submit the duly filled and signed application along with the relevant documents at the office of the District Agriculture Officer and District Training Officer.
&gt; Mode of Selection of Beneficiary(s):

The bonafide farmers having sufficient available cultivable land shall be selected on a first come first served basis. 
&gt; Whom to Contact:


   District Agriculture Officers of the concerned districts.
   SubDivisional Agricultural Officers of the concerned subdivisions.
   District Training Officers, Tura/Shillong.
   Agricultural Development Officers of the concerned Community and Rural Development Blocks. For more information, please refer to: Official Website: https://megagriculture.gov.in/PUBLIC/schemes_ShowSchemesA.aspx?schid=45 FAQs: https://megagriculture.gov.in/PUBLIC/dwd_docs/FAQONAGRICULTURESCHEMES.pdf Tags associated with the scheme include: Agriculture, Agriculture Technology, Farmer, Training, Training Institute.