The name of this welfare scheme is Scheme for Grant of Additional Scholarship to the Students Belonging to Scheduled Tribes of Andaman and Nicobar Islands for Pursuing Higher Studies Anywhere in India Post-Senior Secondary Courses (Post 10+2 Courses). It is also known as SGASSBSTANIPHSAIP-SSC(P10P2C). The scheme “Scheme for Grant of Additional Scholarship to the Students Belonging to Scheduled Tribes of Andaman and Nicobar Islands for Pursuing Higher Studies Anywhere in India Post-Senior Secondary Courses (Post 10+2 Courses)” was started by the Department of Tribal Welfare, Union Territory of Andaman and Nicobar Islands. The objective of the scheme is to provide additional financial assistance (scholarship) to the ST students pursuing higher education after Senior Secondary i.e. 12th Standard in the Colleges/Universities anywhere in India, as an incentive to supplement the cost of their education.
&gt; Scope:

This additional scholarship shall be provided by the Directorate of Tribal Welfare, Union Territory of Andaman and Nicobar Islands Administration to the students belonging to Scheduled Tribes of Union Territory of Andaman and Nicobar Islands for undertaking studies anywhere in India and shall be in addition to the Scholarship/maintenance cost being awarded to the ST students by the Department of Education, Andaman &amp;amp; Nicobar Administration and Ministry of Tribal Affairs, Government of India.
&gt; Funding pattern of the scheme:

The scheme shall be implemented by the Directorate of Tribal Welfare, Union Territory of Andaman and Nicobar Islands Administration through the funds made available under the Union Territory Plan.
&gt; Duration of Scholarship:

The award of additional scholarship once made shall be tenable from the stage at which it is given to the student till the completion of the course, subject to good conduct and regularity in attendance, as certified by the Head of the Institution. The scheme targets beneficiaries such as Individual. It is specifically implemented in Andaman and Nicobar Islands. The implementing agency is Directorate Of Tribal Welfare, Union Territory Of Andaman And Nicobar Islands Administration. Additionally, the nodal department is Tribal welfare Department.

The scheme provides the following benefits: > Value of Additional Scholarship:


   Under this scheme of additional scholarships for Scheduled Tribe Students, an amount of ₹1000/per month shall be given to the eligible students.

&gt; Payment and mode of disbursal of additional scholarship:


   The additional scholarship shall be payable for ten months in an academic session.
   The additional scholarship shall be normally admissible to the passout students of the previous academic session.
   The additional scholarship money shall be directly released to the bank account of the beneficiaries by the Directorate of Tribal Welfare.

Eligibility criteria include: The additional scholarship shall be open to all students of Scheduled Tribes (STs) of Andaman and Nicobar Islands as notified by the President of India under Article 342 (1) of the Constitution of India vide the Andaman &amp;amp; Nicobar Islands Scheduled Tribes Order No. 58 dated Only those students who belong to STs so specified and notified in relation to Andaman and Nicobar Islands and are domicile of A&amp;amp;N islands and who have passed Senior Secondary (10+2) from a recognized Board of Senior Secondary Education or any other higher examination from a recognized University shall be eligible for additional scholarship.
   Students, who fail to clear Bachelor courses in Arts/Science/Commerce for which they had been awarded this additional scholarship, and join any other recognized Professional or Technical certificate/Diploma/ Degree courses, shall be awarded additional scholarship if they are otherwise eligible.
   Students studying in class XI of the Higher Secondary School courses or the XII class of the Multipurpose High School shall not be eligible for this additional scholarship, because of its not being a higher/ professional course. However, in cases, where the tenth class examination of such courses is treated as equivalent to Matriculation and students who after passing the Tenth class join other recognized professional/ technical courses, such students shall be treated as PostMatric students and therefore, shall be eligible for the award of this additional scholarship.
   Students pursuing PostGraduate courses in Medicine shall be eligible for this scholarship provided they are not allowed to practice during the period of their course.
   The additional scholarship shall be given for pursuing higher studies for all recognized regular and fulltime PostSenior Secondary courses (post 10+2 courses), Graduate/Post Graduate courses (leading to Diploma/ Degree), Doctoral and PostDoctoral courses, in any of the Government recognized Institutions and/or AICTE/UGC approved, or equivalent institutions, anywhere in the country, such as:


  All courses leading to a Graduate Degree, e.g. B.A/B.Sc./B.Com. etc.
  All PostGraduate Courses, e.g. M.A/M.Sc./M.Com/M.Ed/M. Pharma. etc.
  Degree and PostGraduate level courses including M.Phil, Ph.D and PostDoctoral Research in Medicine (Allopathy, Indian and other recognized systems of medicines), Engineering, Technology, Planning, Architecture, Design, Fashion Technology, Agriculture, Veterinary and allied Sciences, Management, Business Finance/ Administration, Computer Science/Applications, etc.
  PostGraduate Diploma courses in various branches of Management and medicine, Commercial Pilot License (including helicopter pilot and multiengine rating) course, etc.
  C.A/I.C.W.A./C.S./I.C.F.A. etc.
  M.Phil, Ph.D. and PostDoctoral Progammes (D.Litt., D.Sc. etc.)
  Graduate/PostGraduate Courses leading to Degree, Diploma, Certificate in areas like Pharmacy (B. Pharm), Nursing (B. Nursing), LLB, BFS, other paramedical branches like Rehabilitation Diagnostics, etc., Mass Communication, Hotel Management &amp;amp; Catering, Travel/ Tourism/ Hospitality Management, Interior Decoration, Nutrition &amp;amp; Dietetics, Commercial Art, Financial Services(e.g. Banking, Insurance, Taxation etc.) for which educational qualification is minimum Sr. Secondary (10+2).
  All postmatriculation level nondegree courses for which educational qualification is the vocational stream, ITI course, 3 years Diploma Course in Polytechnic, etc.

Note 01: The additional scholarship is dependent on the satisfactory progress of the beneficiary.
Note 02: If a student is found to have obtained an additional scholarship by false statement, his/her additional scholarship can be cancelled forthwith and the amount of the additional scholarship paid shall be recovered, at the discretion of the sanctioning authority. The student concerned shall be blacklisted and debarred from applying for an additional scholarship under any scheme of the Directorate of Tribal Welfare, thereafter.
Note 03: An additional scholarship awarded may be cancelled if the beneficiary changes the subject of the course of study for which the additional scholarship was originally awarded or changes the institution of study, without prior approval of the Andaman &amp;amp; Nicobar Administration.
Note 04: A beneficiary is liable to refund the additional scholarship amount at the discretion of the Andaman &amp;amp; Nicobar Administration, if during the course of the year, the studies for which the additional scholarship has been awarded, are discontinued by him/her.
Note 05: The provisions of the scheme can be changed at any time at the discretion of the Andaman &amp;amp; Nicobar Administration.
&gt; Renewal of Scholarship:


   The scholarship will be renewed from year to year provided that within a course, which is continuous for a number of years, the beneficiary secures promotion to the next higher class irrespective of the fact whether such examinations are conducted by a University or Institution.
   If a ST beneficiary pursuing a course fails in the yearly examination for the first time, the scholarship may be renewed. For second and subsequent failures in any class, the student shall bear his/her own expenses until he/she secures promotion to the next higher class.
   If a beneficiary is unable to appear in the annual examination owing to illness and /or on account of any other unforeseen event, the award may be renewed for the next academic year on submission of a medical certificate and /or other required sufficient proof to the satisfaction of Head of the Institution and his /her certifying that the beneficiary would have passed the examination had he appeared in it.
   If according to the Regulations of a University/Institution, a student is promoted to the next higher examination of the junior class again after some time, he/she will be entitled to an additional scholarship for the class to which he /she is promoted if the student is otherwise eligible for additional scholarship. The application process is as follows: Step 01: The students applying for the scholarship for the first time need to &amp;quot;Register&amp;quot; using the icon “New Registration” at the NSP Portal URL https://scholarships.gov.in/, by providing accurate and correct information as per their documents.
Step 02: After successfully get registration done, students will get their “Student Registration ID”.
Step 03: Through “Student Registration ID” students will be able to login into the account using the icon “Fresh Application” at NSP Portal.
Step 04: After successful login to the portal, the welcome page appeared. On clicking the “Application Form” icon, students will be directed to the application screen.
Step 05: Now, the students may fill out the complete application form and on clicking the “Final Submit” button, the application is finally submitted.
Step 06: On successful submission of the application, a systemgenerated registration number is sent to the students which can be used for future reference.
Note 01: The UT Administration may announce the details of the scheme and invite applications every year, through the National Scholarship Portal (NSP) by issuing advertisements in the leading newspaper and through other suitable media.
Note 02: All the eligible Scheduled Tribes students will be given additional scholarships subject to fulfillment of instructions prescribed in this scheme. For more information, please refer to: Guidelines: https://scholarships.gov.in/public/schemeGuidelines/Andaman/3030_G.pdf National Scholarship Portal: https://scholarships.gov.in/ Tags associated with the scheme include: Higher Study, Post-Senior Secondary, Scheduled Tribe, Scholarship, Student.