The name of this welfare scheme is Scheme of Conferring ‘Kalaimamani’ Award. It is also known as SOCKA-TN. The &quot;Scheme of Conferring ‘Kalaimamani’ Award - Tamil Nadu&quot; was launched by the Art &amp; Culture Department, Government of Tamil Nadu. The awards felicitate the famous artists who are serving in a commendable manner in the fields of Eyal, Isai, Natakam, Natyam, Cinema, Isai Natakam, Folk arts, Television &amp; related arts given investiture gold pendant of three sovereign ponnadai and citation. The scheme targets beneficiaries such as Artists. It is specifically implemented in Tamil Nadu. The implementing agency is Tamil Nadu Eyal Isai Nataka Mandram. Additionally, the nodal department is Art and Culture Department.

The scheme provides the following benefits: The artist is provided with an Investiture Gold Pendant of three Sovereign Ponnadai and a Citation.
If the artist expires after the announcement of the award to him/her but before the investiture function, the award will be given to his/her dependent.

Eligibility criteria include: The applicant should be an Artist.
The artist should be popular and famous.
The artist should have professionally rendered yeomen services for the enrichment of the traditional arts.
The artist&#39;s performance should have had lasting contribution, popularity, and merit in the art disciplines of Tamil Literature, Music, Bharathanatyam, Drama, Film, Folk arts, Painting, Sculptures, Vigadam, etc.
An artist who is popular in various art disciplines can be conferred the Kalaimamani Award for one discipline only. 
If more than one artist is jointly engaged in artistic pursuit in any of the art disciplines, the award will be given to them jointly.

NOTE 1: This award is conferred regardless of caste, religion, race and age.
NOTE 2: Individual works of art or a single achievement will not be considered for conferring this award. The application process is as follows: > The advertisement by the Manram is published in the newspapers.

Step 1: The interested applicant should visit (during office hours) the office of the Manram and request the hard copy of the prescribed format of the application form from the staff exclusively entrusted to issue and collect filledin applications.
Step 2: In the application form, fill in all the mandatory fields, and attach copies of all the mandatory documents (selfattest, if required).
Step 3: Submit the duly filled and signed application form along with the documents to the Member Secretary, Tamil Nadu Eyal Isai Nataka Manram, Ponni, 31, P.S. Kumarasamy Raja Salai, Chennai600 Step 4: Request a receipt or acknowledgement from the concerned authority to whom the application has been submitted. Ensure that the receipt contains essential details such as the date and time of submission, and a unique identification number (if applicable). For more information, please refer to: Guidelines: https://www.tn.gov.in/rti/proactive/inftour/handbook_artculture.pdf Tags associated with the scheme include: Artists, Award, Drama, Natyam.