The name of this welfare scheme is Winter Cropping & Development of Cultivable Land Scheme. It is also known as WCDCLS. The scheme “Winter Cropping &amp;amp; Development of Cultivable Land” was launched by the Department of Agriculture &amp;amp; Farmers’ Welfare, Government of Meghalaya. The objectives of the scheme are as follows:

  - To bring more areas under cultivation during the normally lean winter season under different crops other than paddy.
  - To increase production and productivity of various crops like cereals, pulses, oilseeds, and vegetables during Rabi Season.

Note: This availability of the above state plan scheme in any particular year is subject to the availability of funds and necessary sanction by the State Government. The continuation of any scheme in a particular year is also subject to the discretion of the State Government. Farmers are therefore advised to check the availability of any scheme with the respective District Agriculture Officers. The scheme targets beneficiaries such as Individual. It is specifically implemented in Meghalaya. The implementing agency is Department Of Agriculture & Farmers’ Welfare, Government Of Meghalaya. Additionally, the nodal department is Agriculture Department.

The scheme provides the following benefits: > Pattern of Assistance:


  Training, Extension, Technology Support, and Subsidy on Inputs.

&gt; Type of Assistance and Entitlement (If any):


  Free distribution of Agril inputs i.e. High Yielding Varieties, Seeds, biopesticides/biofertilizers/fencing materials.
  Conduct of farmers&amp;#39; training/ awareness programme.
  Construction of water conservation structures i.e. check dams, and water harvesting ponds to facilitate Rabi cultivation.

Eligibility criteria include: The applicant should be a permanent resident of Meghalaya.
The applicant should be a bonafide farmer engaged in agriculture. The application process is as follows: &gt; Application Process:

Step 01: The eligible bonafide farmer can apply/write an application on plain paper.
Step 02: Along with the application, attach copies of all the mandatory documents (selfattest, if required).
Step 03: Submit the duly filled and signed application along with the documents at the nearest office of the Horticulture Development Officer of a CD Block/Agriculture Circle.
Mode of Selection of Beneficiary(s):

  The bonafide farmers shall be selected on a first come first serve basis.

&gt; Whom to Contact:


  Sectoral Officer, Directorate of Agriculture
  District Agriculture Officer of the concerned districts
  SubDivisional Officer of the concerned subdivisions
  Agriculture Development Officer of the concerned Community and Rural Development Blocks For more information, please refer to: Official Website: https://megagriculture.gov.in/Home.aspx Guidelines: http://megsrcw.nic.in/sites/default/files/field/II%20schemes%20progs%20services%20under%20line%20deptts.pdf Tags associated with the scheme include: Agriculture, Cultivation, Farmer, Free Distribution Of Inputs, Subsidy On Inputs, Technology Support, Training.