The name of this welfare scheme is Vidya Scheme. It is also known as VS. Vidya scheme under the Education Department, Government of Arunachal Pradesh is a scheme where a girl child who is studying in Class VI is provided with an incentive of ₹10,000/- as fixed deposit in SBI in the name of an individual girl child till she completes Class – XII. After completing Class XII, the Girl child is entitled to receive the maturity amount of the Fixed Deposit. 
Objective:

   1. To encourage girl children to continue school education after elementary and secondary levels. 
   1. To encourage the girls to increase their presence in schools and reduce their dropout rate at the elementary and secondary stages of schooling. 
   1. Providing financial assistance/incentive to all female students who successfully pass the Class-V examination and enroll in Class-VI in the State Government Schools. 
   1. The amount of assistance is ₹10,000 from 2015-16 onwards. 
   1. The awarded amount will be deposited in the State Bank of India (SBI) in the name of the girl student as Fixed. The scheme targets beneficiaries such as Individual. It is specifically implemented in Arunachal Pradesh. Additionally, the nodal department is Education Department.

The scheme provides the following benefits: Financial assistance: A sum of ₹10,000/(Rupees Ten Thousand) would only be deposited under the bank&amp;#39;s Fixed Deposit scheme in the name of every eligible female student.
   The term/period of deposit may be counted from the date of deposit to the approximate date the girl student passes ClassXII.
   No premature withdrawal will be allowed.
   Scheme is beneficial one time on successful completion of Class XII.

Eligibility criteria include: Applicant must be studying in a school in Arunachal Pradesh.
   Applicant must be an unmarried female Student.
   Applicant must have a valid class V passing certificate.
   The mandatory condition for withdrawal is completion of the age of 18 years and class XII.
   The applicant must have an active saving account with the State Bank of India. The application process is as follows: To apply for the scheme, the applicant girl students must contact the Head of the school (principal).
   Collect the application form from the school.
   Fill the details, attach documents, and submit the application to the school.
   The concerned authorities may undertake verification of the prefilled details.
   Once verified, the school may submit the consolidated list of eligible girl students and details to the Director of Elementary Education.
   Then the department shall verify and process the applications submitted. For more information, please refer to: Guidelines: https://ditc.arunachal.gov.in/pdf/notice/Vidya-Scheme-Guidelines2019Revised-1-1.pdf Tags associated with the scheme include: Elementary Education, Financial Assistance, Girl Student, Secondary Education.