The name of this welfare scheme is Petrol Subsidy To Persons With Disability. It is also known as PSTPWD. The Petrol Subsidy To Persons With Disability scheme under the Department Social Welfare, Women &amp; Child Development of Chandigarh will handicapped persons using motorized vehicles entitled to a  50% subsidy on actual expenditure on the purchase of petrol/diesel subject to fulfillment of other conditions laid down under the scheme. The physically handicapped persons having income up to ₹1.50 lacs from all sources are eligible for subsidy. The physically handicapped persons who are already in receipt of the conveyance allowance either from any voluntary or State source shall not be eligible for a grant of subsidy on the purchase of petrol/diesel. Petrol/Diesel Subsidy @50% of actual expenditure on purchase of PetrolDieselp to a maximum of 20 Ltrs. Per month. The scheme targets beneficiaries such as Individual. It is specifically implemented in Chandigarh. Additionally, the nodal department is Social Welfare, Women & Child Development.

The scheme provides the following benefits: Petrol Subsidy Scheme to Persons with Disability provides benefits in the form of subsidy on Petrol and Diesel
Under this scheme 50% subsidy on actual expenditure on purchase of petrol/ diesel provided
Vehicle of 2 Horse Power and Below – 15 litters per month
Vehicle of more than 2Horse Power – More than 15 litters per month
Due to this scheme, some financial burden will be reduced from disabling person and family

Eligibility criteria include: Persons with Disability who are owners of motorized vehicles. 
Persons with Disability having an income up to Rs.50 lacs / p.a. from all sources are eligible for subsidy. 
Those Persons with Disability who are already in receipt of the conveyance allowance either from any voluntary or Govt. source shall not be eligible for a grant of subsidy on the purchase of petrol/ diesel. The application process is as follows: Step 1: Applicant visit the ServicesPlus website 
Step 2: Look for a&quot;Register&quot; on the homepage. Click on it to proceed to the registration page.
Step 3: Fill out the registration form with your
Name 
Email id
Password
Mobile number
Select State
Enter Captcha
Step 4:  Once you&#39;ve filled out all the required information and completed any additional steps, review your details to ensure accuracy, and then submit your registration.
Step 5: After successful registration, you may receive a confirmation message on the website or via email, confirming that your registration was successful.
> Login: Once registered, you can log in to your account using the username and password you created during the registration process. For more information, please refer to: Guidelines: https://chdsw.gov.in/index.php/scheme/petrol-subsidy-to-persons-with-disability Registration: https://serviceonline.gov.in/citizenRegistration.html Tags associated with the scheme include: Disable Person, Person With Disability, Petrol Subsidy, Physically Handicapped, Scheme Handicapped Person.