The name of this welfare scheme is Financial Assistance To Women And Girl Acid Attack Victims. It is also known as FAWGAV. Launched on 26th Feb 2019, the social security scheme “Financial Assistance to Women and Girls Acid Attack Victims” by the Social Justice &amp; Empowerment Department, Govt. of Haryana, provides financial assistance in the form of a monthly pension to the women/girls residing in Haryana who have suffered disfigurement of any part of the body or have become disabled due to acid attack or similar corrosive substance. The scheme aims to restore, to an extent the right to live with dignity for the woman/girl victims of acid attack. The scheme targets beneficiaries such as Individual. It is specifically implemented in Haryana. Additionally, the nodal department is Social Justice and Empowerment Department.

The scheme provides the following benefits: The Financial Assistance will be in the multiples of the monthly pension under the &quot;Divyang Pension&quot; scheme of the Govt. of Haryana:

5 times the monthly Pension, if the Percentage of Disability is between 40% and 50%.
5 times the monthly Pension, if the Percentage of Disability is between 51% and 60%.
5 times the monthly Pension, if the Percentage of Disability is greater than 61%.

The Financial Assistance will become applicable from the month of application.

Eligibility criteria include: The applicant should be a resident of Haryana.
The applicant should be a woman/ girl.
The applicant should have suffered disfigurement of a part of her body or should have become disabled due to an attack by acid or a similar corrosive substance.
The acid attack should have happened on or after 2nd May The applicant should have been residing in Haryana for at least 3 years since the acid attack. The application process is as follows: Step 1: The interested applicant should visit (during office hours) the Office/ SubOffice of the District Social Welfare Officer (DSWO), and request the hard copy of the prescribed format of the application form from the staff exclusively entrusted to issue and collect filledin applications.
Step 2: In the application form, fill in all the mandatory fields, paste the passportsized photograph (signed across, if required), and attach copies of all the mandatory documents (selfattest, if required).
Step 3: Submit the duly filled and signed application form along with the documents to the DSWO.
Step 4: Request a receipt or acknowledgement from the concerned authority to whom the application has been submitted. Ensure that the receipt contains essential details such as the date and time of submission, and a unique identification number (if applicable).


NOTE 1: The application may be made on the victim&#39;s behalf by or her parent(s)/ legal heir(s), in cases where the victim cannot make an application herself. 
NOTE 2: In the case of a minor victim, the application may be made on her behalf by her parent/ guardian. 
NOTE 3: In the case of the victim being a married woman, the application may be made on her behalf by her husband/ parent/ guardian. For more information, please refer to: Guidelines: https://cdnbbsr.s3waas.gov.in/s392bbd31f8e0e43a7da8a6295b251725f/uploads/2021/03/2021032276-1.pdf Tags associated with the scheme include: Acid Attack, Financial Asisstance, Girl, Social Welfare, Victim, Woman.