The name of this welfare scheme is Boneej Scheme. It is also known as BNS. Objective 
The &amp;amp;quot;Boneej Scheme&amp;amp;quot; is a flagship program of the Government of Assam in India, aimed at promoting entrepreneurship and generating employment opportunities for the youth in the state. The scheme is focused on providing financial assistance and support to young entrepreneurs who are willing to start their own ventures.
Under the Boneej Scheme, the government provides financial assistance in the form of seed money to selected entrepreneurs. The scheme also offers various support services such as training, mentoring, and networking opportunities to help entrepreneurs develop their skills, build their businesses, and access markets.
&lt;br&gt;

Area of Implementation
All districts excluding those within the jurisdiction Karbi- Anglong Autonomous District Council, NC Hills Autonomous District Council and Bodoland Territorial Autonomous Districts would be covered. 
&lt;br&gt;

District Target

  - A district-wise target shall be fixed by the Commissionerate of Industries &amp;amp; Commerce, Assam on the basis of rural population in the district and shall be communicated to the concern DICC.

&lt;br&gt; The scheme targets beneficiaries such as Business Entity. It is specifically implemented in Assam. Additionally, the nodal department is Industries and Commerce Department.

It falls under the categories: Social welfare & Empowerment.

Eligibility criteria include: The industry should be located in rural areas of Assam.
This industry should be an existing one and have a continuous operation for a minimum of the last two years.
The unit should have its own workshed for production and process.
The age of the applicant should not be less than 18 years and more than the maximum of 50 years.
There is no bar to educational qualification.
The unit should have avail term loan/working capital loan to the extent to a minimum of one lakh. For more information, please refer to: Guidelines: https://industries.assam.gov.in/sites/default/files/Boneej.pdf Tags associated with the scheme include: Assam, Boneej, Financial Assistance.