The name of this welfare scheme is Integrated Child Development Services Scheme. It is also known as ICDSS. Detailed 
In Nagaland, the ICDS programme was launched in the year 1975 in the Jalukie block of Peren district with 50 Anganwadi centres. The programme has since grown and at present, there are 60 (sixty) ICDS projects in 11 (Eleven) districts of the State. Of this 2 (two) are Urban projects, one is rural project and the rest are Tribal projects. All the 6(six) services under ICDS such as Supplementary nutrition, Health check up, Non formal pre-school education, Immunization, Nutrition &amp;amp; Health education and Referral services are being provided through a Network of 3980 Anganwadi centres in the State.
Presently 60 (sixty) ICDS projects are operating in the state covering 3.45 Lakh beneficiaries under 3980 Anganwadi centres where all the 6 (six) services are provided to children in the age group of 0-6, pregnant women and lactating mothers.
&lt;br&gt;

Objectives

   1. To improve the nutritional and health status of children in the age-group 0-6 years;
   1. To lay the foundation for proper psychological, physical and social development of the child;
   1. To reduce the incidence of mortality, morbidity, malnutrition and school dropout;
   1. To achieve effective co-ordination of policy and implementation amongst the various departments to promote child development; and
   1. To enhance the capability of the mother to look after the normal health and nutritional needs of the child through proper nutrition and health education. The scheme targets beneficiaries such as Individual. It is specifically implemented in Nagaland. Additionally, the nodal department is Social Welfare Department, Nagaland.

It falls under the categories: Social welfare & Empowerment, Health & Wellness.

Eligibility criteria include: Eligibility 

The children up to the age of 6 years.
Pregnant women.
Lactating mothers. For more information, please refer to: Details: https://dsw.nagaland.gov.in/integrated-child-development-services-scheme-icds/ Tags associated with the scheme include: Integrated Child Development Services, Nagaland.