The name of this welfare scheme is Internship Scheme For PG/Research Students In Directorate General Of Trade Remedies (DGTR). It is also known as ISPGRSDGTR. The Internship Scheme by the Directorate General of Trade Remedies (DGTR), Department of Commerce, Ministry of Commerce &amp; Industry provides opportunity to young scholars, especially from Law / Economics stream, interested in learning about trade remedial investigations. The objective of this scheme is to familiarize interested and willing PG students / Research scholars with Trade remedial investigations / Trade Defence measures.


> Tenure

Minimum duration of internship will be one month.


> Nature of Internship


1. The Interns will be attached to one officer of DGTR who will act as ‘mentor’ to the Intern and would design a suitable schedule for the intern.
1. The Interns would be attached with Officers / Division /Cell as decided by the competent authority of DGTR based on recommendation of the ‘mentor’.



> Number of Interns


1. The number of interns to be taken will be decided by the DGTR.
1. Internship in DGTR is neither a job nor any such assurance for a job in the Department / Organization / Government.



> Termination of Internship

DGTR reserves the right to terminate the internship of any intern at any point of time without assigning any reason in this regard to either the intern or his/her institution. The scheme targets beneficiaries such as Individual. The implementing agency is Directorate General Of Trade Remedies (DGTR). Additionally, the nodal ministry is Ministry Of Commerce And Industry and the nodal department is Department Of Commerce.

The scheme provides the following benefits: > Certificate of Internship

Certificates will be issued to the interns at the end of successful completion of the Internship.
NOTE: No financial aid / stipend will be provided by this Directorate to the interns.

Eligibility criteria include: The applicant should be a Postgraduate Student or a Research Scholar from a recognized University/Institute.
The Internship should be a part of their Course curriculum (wherein duration of internship may extend to a semester) or undertaken as an additional assignment during the annual vacations. The application process is as follows: The interested PG students / Research scholars may send their application in the prescribed proforma along with their CV (optional) either by post or byhand to reach the following address:
General Administration Section
Directorate General of Trade Remedies (DGTR)
Ministry of Commerce
Jeevan Tara Building, New Delhi, Delhi 110001
NOTE: The application should be sent at least one month in advance from the date the applicant intends to join. The interested PG students / Research scholars may send their application in the prescribed proforma along with their CV (optional) by email to dgtrindia@gov.in.
NOTE: The application should be sent at least one month in advance from the date the applicant intends to join. For more information, please refer to: Guidelines: https://www.dgtr.gov.in/sites/default/files/Intership.pdf Tags associated with the scheme include: Commerce, Internship, Internship, Postgraduation, Research, Trade.