The name of this welfare scheme is National Overseas Scholarship For Students With Disabilities. It is also known as NOS-SWD. A scholarship scheme by the Ministry of Social Justice &amp; Empowerment for regular, full-time students with disabilities to obtain higher education viz., Master&#39;s degree, or Ph.D. courses from foreign universities, in one of the specified fields of study.


The students with the specified disabilities defined in Schedule of the &quot;Rights of Persons with Disabilities Act, 2016&quot; will be eligible under this scheme. This includes persons with visual, hearing, speech, loco-motor, mental retardation, and other disabilities. NOS is implemented offline by the DEPwD.


At times SwDs are deprived of harnessing their latent skills and thereby miss the opportunity. This scheme aims to support SwDs to study further in order to prepare themselves to earn their livelihood and to find a dignified place for themselves in the society as they face several barriers physical, financial, psychological, mental in pursuing studies and living with dignity. The scheme targets beneficiaries such as Individual. The implementing agency is Department Of Empowerment Of Persons With Disabilities (DoEPwDs). Additionally, the nodal ministry is Ministry Of Social Justice and Empowerment and the nodal department is Department Of Empowerment Of Persons With Disabilities.

It falls under the categories: Education & Learning, Social welfare & Empowerment.

Eligibility criteria include: The applicant must be a student.
The applicant must be Admitted into (or received an unconditional offer of admission) Masters&#39;s level courses and Ph.D. courses abroad in institutions/universities accredited by the Government/authorized body of that country.
The Disability Percentage of the applicant must be 40% &amp; above.
The applicant must be 35 years or lesser in age, as on the first day of the month of advertisement of the scheme.
The Total Family Income of the applicant (from all sources) must not exceed ₹ 6 lakh per annum. For more information, please refer to: Guidelines: http://disabilityaffairs.gov.in/upload/uploadfiles/files/scholarship2(1).pdf Tags associated with the scheme include: Degree, Empowerment, Higher Education, Person With Disability, PhD, Post-Graduation, Scholarship, Student.