The name of this welfare scheme is Saraswati Cycle Yojana. It is also known as SCY. Objective

- Providing transportation facilities to the girl students of class 9th studying in government schools and aided non-government schools


- Encouraging girl child education.
- To reduce the school dropout rate under this scheme, the state government has decided to give cycles to girls.
- Girls will be able to go to school if the school is away from them by getting cycles. The scheme targets beneficiaries such as Individual. It is specifically implemented in Chhattisgarh. Additionally, the nodal department is School Education Department.

The scheme provides the following benefits: Free cycles are being distributed to girl students under the scheme.

Eligibility criteria include: The following categories of citizens are eligible for the Chhattisgarh Saraswati Cycle Scheme: –

Should be a native of Chhattisgarh state only.
Girl students below Poverty Line (BPL).
SC/ST girl students.
Girl students of class 9th. The application process is as follows: The applicant should first contact the headmaster of the concerned school or institution.
Applicants can also approach the District Education Officer (DEO) to apply for this scheme.
After this, the applicant will have to get the application form of the Chhattisgarh Saraswati Cycle Yojana.
Now fill in all the information asked in the application form completely.
Attach all the necessary documents with the application form.
The application form has to be submitted.
The application form will be verified by the concerned officer.
The applicant will be informed after the approval of the application form.
Beneficiary girls are selected by the principal on the basis of caste certificate and B.P.L. Selection of girls of the class related to K.B.P.L. done on card basis. For more information, please refer to: Details: https://eduportal.cg.nic.in/schemes/Cycle_Yojna.aspx Tags associated with the scheme include: Girl Education, Student, Transportation Facilities.