The name of this welfare scheme is Agriculture Research Stations and Laboratories Scheme. It is also known as ARSLS. The “Agriculture Research Stations and Laboratories Scheme” was launched by the Department of Agriculture &amp;amp; Farmers’ Welfare, Government of Meghalaya to conduct adaptive research trials on different crops in the Research Farms and in Farmers&amp;#39; Fields for adaptability and use of bio-pesticides/bio-agents. The scheme targets beneficiaries such as Individual. It is specifically implemented in Meghalaya. The implementing agency is Department Of Agriculture & Farmers’ Welfare, Government Of Meghalaya. Additionally, the nodal department is Agriculture Department.

The scheme provides the following benefits: > Pattern of Assistance:


Adaptive research at farmers&#39; field.

> Type of Assistance And Entitlement (If Any):


Training on Soil management, Providing Soil Health Cards, Conducting soil surveys, etc.

Eligibility criteria include: The applicant should be a permanent resident of Meghalaya.
The applicant should be a bonafide farmer engaged in agriculture. The application process is as follows: &gt; Application Process:

Step 01: The eligible bonafide farmer can apply/write an application on plain paper.
Step 02: Along with the application, attach copies of all the mandatory documents (selfattest, if required).
Step 03: Submit the duly filled and signed application along with the documents at the nearest office of the Agriculture Development Officer of a CD Block/ Agriculture Circle.
&gt; Mode of Selection of Beneficiary(s):

The bonafide farmers shall be selected on a first come first serve basis.
&gt; Whom to Contact:


   District Agriculture Officers of the concerned districts
   SubDivisional Agricultural Officers of the concerned subdivisions
   District Training Officers, Tura/Shillong
   Agricultural Development Officers of the concerned Community and Rural Development Blocks For more information, please refer to: Official Website: https://megagriculture.gov.in/PUBLIC/schemes_ShowSchemesA.aspx?schid=82 Tags associated with the scheme include: Agriculture, Bio Agent, Bio Pesticide, Farmer, Laboratory, Research Station.