The name of this welfare scheme is Tenzing Norgay National Adventure Award. It is also known as TNNAA. The Ministry of Youth Affairs and Sports, Government of India confers the National Adventure Award called “Tenzing Norgay National Adventure Award” (TNNAA) in order to recognize the achievements of persons associated in the field of adventure and to encourage young people to develop the spirit of endurance, risk-taking, cooperative teamwork and quick, ready and effective reflexes in challenging situations.


The award consists of a bronze statuette, a certificate, a blazer with a silken tie/a saree, and award money of ₹ 15,00,000. The Awards are presented to the winners along with Arjuna Awards by the Government of India.


Usually, One Award is given in four categories namely, Land Adventure, Water (Sea) Adventure, Air Adventure, and Life Time Achievement for adventure activities on Land, Sea, and Air. Achievements for the last 3 years are considered for the 3 categories namely Land Adventure, Water (Sea) Adventure, and Air Adventure and for the Life Time Achievement award, the achievement of the entire career is considered.


The nominations for the TNNAA are invited through the portal https://awards.gov.in. Any person having excellent performance and outstanding qualities of leadership, a sense of adventure discipline, and continuous achievement in one particular field of adventure viz. Land, Air, or Water (Sea) may apply for the award through the above portal. The scheme targets beneficiaries such as Sportsperson. Additionally, the nodal ministry is Ministry Of Youth Affairs & Sports.

It falls under the categories: Sports & Culture.

Eligibility criteria include: > CATEGORIES

Awards can be given in four categories namely, Land Adventure, Water (Sea) Adventure, Air Adventure, and Life Time Achievement for adventure activities on Land, Sea, and Air.
Ordinarily not more than one Award will be made in each category.
The Ministry may increase the number of awards in a particular year for specific reasons recorded in writing and with the approval of the Minister of Youth Affairs and Sports.


> ELIGIBILITY


A person should have excellent performance and outstanding qualities of leadership, a sense of adventure discipline, and continuous achievement in one particular field of adventure viz. Land, Air, or Water (Sea). 
The award may be given posthumously if such an occasion arises. For more information, please refer to: Guidelines: https://awards.gov.in/Home/GoToIndex?filename=Award%2FCommunication%2F2022513258128ZWWZ3H.pdf&filepath=Award%2FCommunication%2F2022513258128ZWWZ3H.pdf Nomination / Application Link: https://awards.gov.in/Home/AwardLibrary Tags associated with the scheme include: Award, Sports, Youth.