The name of this welfare scheme is Scheme For Award Of Financial Assistance For Education To The Wards Of Beedi/Cine/IOMC/LSDM Workers – Pre & Post-Matric. It is also known as SAFAEW-BCEW. A scholarship scheme by the Directorate of Social Welfare, Ministry of Labour and Employment wherein financial assistance for education is provided to the Wards of Beedi/Iron Ore Mines, Manganese Ore &amp; Chrome Ore Mines (IOMC)/Limestone Mines, Dolomite Mines (LSDM)/Mica Mines and Cine Workers, varying from ₹1,000/- to ₹25,000/- per student per annum. The benefits under the scheme are being transferred through the DBT system and the applications under this scheme are invited and processed through the National Scholarship Portal. The Applicant must have passed the last qualifying examination on the first attempt. However, Students promoted to the next class are also eligible to apply for the above scholarships. Candidates for the award of scholarships should have taken regular admission for studies at recognized institutions in India in any course of general or technical education, including medical, engineering, and agricultural studies. The scheme targets beneficiaries such as Individual. Additionally, the nodal ministry is Ministry Of Labour and Employment.

It falls under the categories: Skills & Employment, Education & Learning, Social welfare & Empowerment.

Eligibility criteria include: Candidates for the award of scholarships should have taken regular admission for studies at recognized institutions in India in any course of general or technical education, including medical, engineering, and agricultural studies. 
The total monthly Income of the Worker’s family from all sources should not exceed under:Beedi Workers ₹10,000/; Mine Workers –
a)   The Mineworkers doing manual, unskilled, highly skilled, and clerical work is eligible for availing all facilities under different welfare schemes of the Labour Welfare Organization irrespective of the wages paid to them.
b)   The persons employed in supervisory and managerial capacities are eligible for availing of the facilities under different welfare schemes subject to the wage limit of ₹10,000/per month.
c)   Cine workers – An amount not exceeding ₹8,000/per month where such amount is paid monthly or an amount not exceeding ₹1,00,000/where it is paid by way of lump sum or installments; as remuneration of a cine worker for the purpose of this Act.
The Applicant must have passed the last qualifying examination on the first attempt. However, Students promoted to the next class are also eligible.
Either of the parents of the students should be Beedi, Iron Ore Manganese &amp; Chrome Ore Mines, Limestone &amp; Dolomite Mines, and Cine workers with at least six months of service. This also includes Contract/Gharkhata (Home Based) workers also. 
The Educational Institute must be Government/Government Recognized Institute.
Students who receive scholarships or stipends from any other source will not be granted under this Scheme. 
The Scholar should have a separate bank account. In the case of Joint accounts, the first name should be of the Scholar.
More than one child of the same worker also should furnish a separate bank account number. For more information, please refer to: Guidelines (AY 2022-23): https://scholarships.gov.in/public/schemeGuidelines/Labour_Ministry_Guidelines_of_scholarhsips%20schemes.pdf Tags associated with the scheme include: Financial Assistance, Scholarship, Student.