The name of this welfare scheme is PM-YASASVI: Top Class School Education for OBC, EBC and DNT Students. It is also known as PM-YASASVI:TCSEOBCEBCDNTS. The “PM-YASASVI: Top Class School Education for OBC, EBC and DNT Students” is a sub-scheme under the umbrella scheme namely “PM Young Achievers Scholarship Award Scheme for Vibrant India for OBCs and Others (PM-YASASVI)”. The scheme was launched by the Ministry of Social Justice &amp;amp; Empowerment, Government of India to provide educational assistance to the students belonging to Other Backward Classes (OBCs), Economically Backward Classes (EBCs), and Denotified, Nomadic Tribes (DNT). The Scheme will be funded by the Ministry of Social Justice and Empowerment on a 100% basis.
&gt; Objective:

The objective of the scheme is to provide premium education to the meritorious students belonging to OBC, EBC, and DNT categories by funding their education from Class 9 onwards till they complete Class 12.  
&gt; Scope and Coverage:

All the OBC, EBC, and DNT students studying in the Top Class Schools identified as per the modalities of the scheme with a household annual income of less than ₹2.5 lakhs would be eligible for the scheme. The number of slots for each State would be allocated based on the OBC population data available. The sanction of scholarship would be based on merit and is done using the online portal. 
&gt; Implementing Agency:

This is a central sector component under the Centrally Sponsored scheme and would be implemented by the Ministry of Social Justice and Empowerment with the assistance of the State Governments and the National Scholarship Portal.
&gt; Modalities:

The scheme would be implemented in the following manner:

  - The top performing schools which consistently secure 100% passes in the Classes 10th &amp;amp; 12th would be selected by a selection committee constituted under the Chairmanship of Joint Secretary (BC) and with representation from the Department of School Education and the NITI Aayog. These schools will be termed as ‘Top Class Schools (TCSs)’ for the purpose of this scheme.
  - The TCSs can be public (Central/State/Local Body) or aided schools or private schools.
  - The number of slots available under the scheme for each State and each class would be announced in the month of April each year.
  - At least 30% of these scholarships are reserved for girls. The scheme targets beneficiaries such as Individual. The implementing agency is Ministry Of Social Justice And Empowerment. Additionally, the nodal ministry is Ministry Of Social Justice and Empowerment and the nodal department is Department of Social Justice & Empowerment.

The scheme provides the following benefits: The grants will be provided for tuition fee, hostel fee, and other charges as required by the school, subject to a maximum of ₹75,000/per annum per student of Class 9 and 10 and ₹1,25,000/per annum per student of Class 11 and Note 01: The release of funds will be directly into the account of beneficiaries through DBT mode.
Note 02: Payment shall be made in installments to be released before 15th August each year.

Eligibility criteria include: All the OBC, EBC, and DNT students studying in the Top Class Schools identified as per the modalities of the scheme with a household annual income of less than ₹5 lakhs would be eligible for the scheme.
   The meritorious students studying from Class 9 onwards till they complete Class 12 can avail of the benefits of the scheme.

&gt; Other Conditions:


  The students must have a Bank Account and while applying under the scheme should provide all necessary details.
  The shortlisted School should have an AadhaarBased Attendance System that can be integrated into a central portal if required.
  Students studying in schools assisted under this Scheme shall not be eligible for assistance under any other scheme of the Government for the items/purposes already covered under this Scheme. The application process is as follows: The OBC/EBC/DNT students already studying in the Top Class Schools (TCSs) can apply on the National Scholarship Portal for the scheme along with the marks they have obtained in the final exam of the previous class. https://scholarships.gov.in/ 
&gt; Registration for New Applicant:

Step 01: Open the official NSP website and click on &amp;#39;New Registration&amp;#39; under Applicant Corner.
Step 02: Read the Instruction/Guidelines, provide the undertaking by clicking on the Check box then click on Continue.
Step 03: Start the registration by providing the required details.
&gt; Registered Applicant:

Step 01: Open the official NSP website and click on &amp;#39;Fresh Application&amp;#39; under Applicant Corner.
Step 02: Login with your application ID &amp;amp; password.
Step 03: Select the Scholarship.
Step 04: Fill out the applicant form.
Step 05: Upload the required documents and Submit.
&gt; Selection Process:


  The applications have to be verified online by the Nodal Officers of the School, and confirmed by the State Government online.
  There shall be a Statewise merit list for each class for boys and girls separately prepared on the basis of the marks obtained in the final exam of the previous class, and allocation of the scholarships shall be automatically be done on the merit. For more information, please refer to: Guidelines: https://socialjustice.gov.in/public/ckeditor/upload/65661651839791.pdf National Scholarship Portal: https://scholarships.gov.in/ Tags associated with the scheme include: DNT, EBC, Education, OBC, PM-YASASVI, School, Student, Top Class School.