The name of this welfare scheme is Vocational Training For VJNT And SBC Candidates Studying In Government Industrial Training Institute. It is also known as VTVSCSGIT. The State Government of Maharashtra introduced in 2003-04 the scheme to create self-employment for unemployed youths and students of VJNT and SBC who apply for Vocational Training. He will be given Vocational Training in Government I.T.I and undergo short-duration vocational training courses. The short-duration vocational courses will enable the youths to create their own employment in the service sector.
The training fees ₹ 400/- to ₹ 2400/- (as per course) are paid to the concerned I.T.I. After completion of training, one Tool Kit of ₹ 1000/- is provided to the trainee through the concerned Govt. I.T.I. The scheme targets beneficiaries such as Individual. It is specifically implemented in Maharashtra. Additionally, the nodal department is Social Justice and Special Assistance Department.

The scheme provides the following benefits: The training fees ₹ 400/to ₹ 2400/(as per course) are paid to the concerned I.T.I. After completion of training, one Tool Kit of ₹ 1000/is provided to the trainee through the concerned Govt. I.T.I.

Eligibility criteria include: Students should belong to VJNT or SBC Category.
The selection of students for training under this scheme is made by the Principal of the concerned Govt. I.T.I. &amp; concerned Asstt.
Commissioner of Social Welfare. The application process is as follows: Step 1: Visit the concerned Industrial Training Institute (ITI), and request a hard copy of the format of the application form for the scheme from the concerned authority.
Step 2: In the application form, fill in all the mandatory fields, paste the passportsized photograph (signed across), and attach all the (selfattested) mandatory documents.
Step 3: Submit the duly filled and signed application form along with the documents to the concerned authority.
Step 4: Acquire the receipt/acknowledgment of the successful submission of the application form. For more information, please refer to: Guidelines: https://sjsa.maharashtra.gov.in/en/scheme-category/education-training Tags associated with the scheme include: Government Industrial Training, Special Backward Classes, Vimukta Jati And Nomadic Tribes, Vocational Training.