The name of this welfare scheme is Surakshit Matritva Aashwasan Yojana. It is also known as SUMAN. SUMAN Yojana or Surakshit Matritva Aashwasan Yojana is a maternity benefit initiative launched by the Ministry of Union Health and Family Welfare. This program provides affordable and quality healthcare solutions to pregnant women and newborns. Under this scheme, pregnant women, sick newborns, and mothers receive zero expense access up to six months after delivery. They receive treatment from quality hospitals and professionals. The PMSMA programme allows four antenatal check-ups during the 1st trimester and check-ups under Pradhan Mantri Surakshit Matritva Abhiyan.


Objectives of the SUMAN scheme- 

1. This scheme offers zero expenses and access to detection and management of complications during and after pregnancy.
1. Pregnant women can avail a zero-expense delivery and C-section facility at public health facilities.
1. SUMAN scheme ensures zero-tolerance for denial of services to children and pregnant women.
1. Pregnant women also receive free transport from home to the health facility and drop back after discharge.
1. This initiative facilitates respectful care with privacy and support for breastfeeding.
1. Facilities such as services for sick newborns and neonates and vaccination are offered for zero cost. The scheme targets beneficiaries such as Individual. Additionally, the nodal ministry is Ministry Of Health & Family Welfare and the nodal department is Department of Health and Family Welfare.

It falls under the categories: Health & Wellness, Women and Child.

Eligibility criteria include: All pregnant women and newborns are eligible to avail of the benefits under the PM SUMAN Yojana. Following are the general requirements Pregnant women from all categories, including APL and BPL, are eligible to get the benefits
Newborns aged 0 to 6 months old will be able to avail the benefits of this scheme
After delivery, lactating mothers up to 6 months from delivery are also eligible for this scheme. For more information, please refer to: Guidelines: https://nhm.gov.in/New_Updates_2018/NHM_Components/RMNCHA/MH/Guidelines/SUMAN%20Guideline%202020%20Web%20Version.pdf Tags associated with the scheme include: Health, Pregnant.