The name of this welfare scheme is Hari Om Ashram Prerit Doctor Vikram Sarabhai Research Award. It is also known as HOAPDVSRA. The Shri Hari Om Ashram Prerit Dr. Vikram Sarabhai Research Awards are biennial awards established with funds from Pujya Shri Mota of Hari Om Ashram, Nadiad, to recognize outstanding contributions by Indian scientists under the age of 45 in the fields of Space Sciences, Space Applications, Electronics, Informatics, Telematics, Automation, and Systems Analysis or Management. The awards consist of a cash prize of ₹50,000, a medal, and recognition for original research work done in India.


> Fields of Disciplines:


- Space Sciences (including Astronomy, Astrophysics, Planetary and Atmospheric Sciences).
- Space Applications (in the areas of Meteorology, Hydrology, Remote Sensing, and related Ground Truths).
- Electronics, Informatics, Telematics and Automation.
- Systems Analysis or Management, including non-linear, non-equilibrium systems in natural and social sciences and technology. The scheme targets beneficiaries such as Individual. Additionally, the nodal ministry is Ministry Of Science And Technology and the nodal department is Department of Space.

The scheme provides the following benefits: Cash Prize of ₹50,000/and Medal.

Eligibility criteria include: The applicant should be an Indian citizen.
The applicant should be a scientist. 
The applicant&#39;s age is below 45 years (born on or after January 2, 1972, for the 2017 awards).
The applicant&#39;s contributions should be in the areas mentioned, such as Space Sciences, Space Applications, Electronics, Informatics, Telematics, Automation, etc. The application process is as follows: Step01: The applicant visits the PRL website and navigate to the &quot;Opportunities&quot; section.
Step02: Click on &quot;Awards Administered By PRL&quot; and select scheme &quot;Hari Om Ashram Prerit Doctor Vikram Sarabhai Research Award&quot; 
Step03: The candidate downloads the prescribed format of the application form. 
Step04: In the application form, fill in all the mandatory fields, and attach copies of all the mandatory documents (selfattest, if required).
Step05: Candidate can email or post their applications in the prescribed format to: hoa@prl.res.in OR The Director, Physical Research Laboratory, Navrangpura, Ahmedabad For more information, please refer to: Guidelines: https://www.prl.res.in/prl-eng/vikram_sarabhai_research_award Tags associated with the scheme include: Award, Cash Prize, Research, Scientist.