The name of this welfare scheme is Shelter Home For Women (SHW). It is also known as SHW. The scheme &quot;Shelter Home for Women (SHW)&quot; is a Social Welfare Scheme by the Directorate of Women &amp; Child Development, Govt. of Goa. The scheme provides temporary shelter and support to women who have no family or social support systems to rely on and rehabilitate the women socially and economically by the provision of skill training, and counselling. The shelter Homes are given Financial Assistance in the form of grants consisting of salary components and maintenance expenditures. The scheme targets beneficiaries such as Government Organisation, NGO, Trust. It is specifically implemented in Goa. Additionally, the nodal department is Women and Child Development Department.

The scheme provides the following benefits: The Shelter Homes are given Financial Assistance in the form of Grants consisting of Salary Components and Maintenance Expenditures.

Eligibility criteria include: The applicant should qualify as ANY ONE of the following A NonGovernment Voluntary Organization registered under the Registration of Societies Act, A Public Trust, registered under any law for the time being in force.
Local Body.
Government Body.
Body as specified by the Govt. having a Managing Body with powers, duties and responsibilities, the experience of working in the field of women and children welfare, and rendering their services without distinction of caste, religion or language. The application process is as follows: Step 1: Visit the Directorate of Women &amp; Child Development, PanajiGoa, and request a hard copy of the proforma of the application form for the scheme from the Concerned Authority.
Step 2: In the application form, fill in all the mandatory fields, paste the passportsized photograph (signed across), and attach copies of all the mandatory documents (selfattest if required).
Step 3: Submit the duly filled and signed application form along with the documents to the Concerned Authority.
Step 4: Acquire the receipt/acknowledgement of the successful submission of the application. For more information, please refer to: Citizen's Charter: https://www.goa.gov.in/wp-content/uploads/2022/08/DWCD-Citizen-Charter-1.pdf Tags associated with the scheme include: Counselling, Shelter, Skill, Training, Women.