The name of this welfare scheme is Annai Teresa Ninaivu Marriage Assistance Scheme for Orphan Girls-I. It is also known as ATNMASFOGI. The &#39;Annai Teresa Ninaivu Marriage Assistance Scheme for Orphan Girls-I&#39; was launched by the Social Welfare and Women Empowerment Department, Government of Tamil Nadu. The scheme provides financial assistance to the orphan girls for their marriage. The bride should have completed 18 years of age at the time of marriage. The scheme targets beneficiaries such as Individual. It is specifically implemented in Tamil Nadu. Additionally, the nodal department is Department of Social Welfare and Women Empowerment.

The scheme provides the following benefits: Financial assistance of ₹25,000/.
One sovereign (8gm) 22carat gold coin for making Thirumangalyam. 

> Mode of Disbursal: Through Electronic Clearing Service.

Eligibility criteria include: The applicant should be a girl.
The applicant should be an orphan.
The bride should be 18 years or above at the time of marriage. The application process is as follows: Step 1: The applicant should gather copies of the necessary documents needed to apply for the concerned scheme.
Step 2: The applicant should visit the nearest Common Service Center (CSC) and complete the Biometric Verification Process.
Step 3: In the application form, fill in all the mandatory fields and upload copies of all the mandatory documents.
Step 4: Request a receipt or acknowledgment from the CSC. Ensure that the receipt contains essential details such as the date and time of submission, and a unique identification number (if applicable).
> Application Deadline

40 days before the marriage date (In exceptional circumstances, the application can be submitted one day before the marriage date). Step 1: The interested applicant should take print of the prescribed format of the application form.
Step 2: In the application form, fill in all the mandatory fields, paste the passportsized photograph (signed across, if required), and attach copies of all the mandatory documents (selfattest, if required).
Step 3: Submit the duly filled and signed application form along with the documents to the District Social Welfare Officer/ Extension Officer (Social Welfare).
Step 4: Request a receipt or acknowledgment from the concerned authority to whom the application has been submitted. Ensure that the receipt contains essential details such as the date and time of submission, and a unique identification number (if applicable).
> Application Deadline

40 days before the marriage date (In exceptional circumstances, the application can be submitted one day before the marriage date). For more information, please refer to: Application Form & Document Reqiured: https://cms.tn.gov.in/sites/default/files/forms/social_welfare_form12.pdf Application Form & Document Reqiured: https://cms.tn.gov.in/sites/default/files/forms/social_welfare_form11.pdf Tags associated with the scheme include: Girl, Gold, Marriage, Orphan.