The name of this welfare scheme is Incentive Scheme for MSMEs in Powerloom Sector: Waiver of Electricity Duty. It is also known as ISMPSWED. The scheme “Waiver of Electricity Duty” is a sub scheme under the “Incentive Scheme for MSMEs in Powerloom Sector”. It was launched on 1st January, 2022, by the Department of Micro, Small &amp;amp; Medium Enterprises and Textiles, Government of West Bengal, and shall remain valid upto 31st December, 2024.
&gt; Objective of the &amp;quot;Incentive Scheme for MSMEs in Powerloom Sector”:

The objective of the Scheme is to extend fiscal incentives for installation of New age shuttleless Powerlooms by MSMEs in Textile sector with a view to boost production of the improved quality fabrics and to create a sustainable ecosystem for MSMEs in Textile sector which can maximize the utilization of resource, generate new employment and widen the area of operation to make the State emerge as the leader in Powerloom sector in country.
&gt; Objective of the &amp;quot;Waiver of Electricity Duty&amp;quot; Sub-scheme:

Through this incentive, an eligible micro, small or medium enterprise in the Powerloom sector for its approved project will be entitled an reimbursement of electricity duty on the electricity consumed for the manufacturing activity for 5 years from the date of commencement of commercial production. The scheme targets beneficiaries such as Business Entity, Government Organisation, Joint Liability Groups (JLGS), Industries, Self Help Groups (SHGS), Trust, NGO, Registered Societies. It is specifically implemented in West Bengal. Additionally, the nodal department is Micro, Small & Medium Enterprises and Textiles Department.

The scheme provides the following benefits: &gt; Micro &amp;amp; Small Enterprise:

Zone A &amp;amp; B: 50%  subject to a maximum of ₹10,00,000/per year on the electricity consumption for 5 years.
Zone C, D &amp;amp; E: 75% subject to a maximum of ₹10,00,000/per year on the electricity consumption for 5 years.
&gt; Medium Enterprise:

Zone B &amp;amp; C: 100% subject to a maximum of ₹25,00,000/per year on the electricity consumption for 5 years.
Zone D &amp;amp; E: 100% on the electricity consumption for 5 years and 75% waiver from the 6th year up to 10th year from the date of commencement of commercial production subject to a maximum of ₹50,00,000/per year.

Eligibility criteria include: The Scheme shall be generally applicable to all micro, small, and medium enterprises (MSMEs) in the powerloom sector.
  Enterprises must have started production from 2022 to Enterprises should have executed a Fourparty agreement with the Directorate of Textiles, Financial institution and Tantuja.
  The units should be a private sector, cooperative sector and joint sector undertaking as also companies/ undertakings owned and managed by the State Government and the Industrial SHGs.
  The project should be covered by a detailed feasibility report/project prepared for the purpose.
  The project should have been approved and sanctioned by a Central Financial Institution or Commercial Banks or State Financial Institutions. The application process is as follows: A micro, small or medium enterprise in Powerloom segment shall duly apply in prescribed form to the Directorate of Electricity Duty in FORMC with all the relevant documents.

&gt; Time frame for submission of first Application:

Within 12 months from the date of commencement of commercial production (2022 to 2024).
&gt; Address:

DIRECTOR OF ELECTRICITY DUTY, DIRECTORATE OF COMMERCIAL TAXES,
Annex Building III, 6th &amp;amp; 7th Floor
Commercial Tax Building Complex,14,Beliaghata Road, KolkataPhone: 03322510106
Help Desk: 033 2251 0190, dedwbhelpdesk@gmail.com For more information, please refer to: Guidelines (Kolkata Gazette): https://wbmsmet.gov.in/home/download/YzA0YzdiMjc0YjAwYjBiMDgwYTRjYmRkOTU1MDY1NGQyNTNjM2YyYWYxMDRhNTkyYjRiMWI1YmVkZDYyOTZlN2YwNDc3ZDgwMDM5YzgxYjhmZWZiMWY2ODI0ZTNjYTUzMjU4N2YwYjViMjJiZTllZjAzYmM3NTRiZTY4ZDk0MTVjVmtvdlJCcjA0ZlpLYjZkbTlPQ0hyUTBaNGRuVzZZOXpHTlpGRkJwcUlZaDNwNXF0S01rSU4rTE5ZS3JCd3VKVmp5c1drM3hEb29QaHlXNit1Vy9CQT09 Tags associated with the scheme include: Electricity Duty, Entrepreneurship, Powerloom, Reimbursement, Subsidy, Waiver.