The name of this welfare scheme is Girl Students Health & Hygiene Scheme. It is also known as GSHHS. The scheme “Girl Students Health &amp;amp; Hygiene Scheme” was announced by the Department of School Education, Govt. of Arunachal Pradesh in 2013. This scheme is basically providing incentives towards the beneficiaries of girl child students studying in classes VI to XII only which institutes/schools are fully run by the State Govt. and Govt. Aided Schools in Arunachal Pradesh. The main aim and objective of this scheme are to be retained and continue in the schools during the occurrence of their menstrual period. Further, this scheme increases awareness among adolescent girls on Menstrual Hygiene.
Important Features:

- Sanitary napkins are supplied in a decentralized mode in terms of cash transfer in the account of beneficiaries/ school management/ or by central procurement at the district level.
- Further distribution of napkins to the beneficiaries takes place at the school level. The scheme targets beneficiaries such as Individual. It is specifically implemented in Arunachal Pradesh. The implementing agency is Department Of Education, Arunachal Pradesh. Additionally, the nodal department is Education Department.

The scheme provides the following benefits: ₹50/per student per month in all Govt. schools through DBT (all year amount is credited to the account of the beneficiary).

Eligibility criteria include: All girl students from class VI to XII studying in government and governmentaided schools in Arunachal Pradesh. The application process is as follows: Girls Students will not need to fill any application form to take benefits of the scheme.
Sanitary napkins will be given to the girl students by their schools.
Girl students may also contact the Director of Elementary and Secondary Education in their concerned district. For more information, please refer to: Website: https://education.arunachal.gov.in/schems.php# Website: https://s3c0c7c76d30bd3dcaefc96f40275bdc0a.s3waas.gov.in/education/ Guideline: https://cdn.s3waas.gov.in/s3c0c7c76d30bd3dcaefc96f40275bdc0a/uploads/2023/01/2023012771.pdf Tags associated with the scheme include: Girl, Health, Hygiene, Sanitary Napkin, Student.