The name of this welfare scheme is Scholarship (Above VIII Standard) - Tamil Nadu. It is also known as SATN. The Department for the Welfare of Differently Abled Persons, Government of Tamil Nadu, offers the &quot;Scholarship for Students with Disabilities (Above Grade 8)&quot; program. This initiative provides financial assistance to differently-abled students enrolled in government-recognized schools, colleges, or training centers to help with educational expenses. The scheme targets beneficiaries such as Individual. It is specifically implemented in Tamil Nadu. Additionally, the nodal department is Welfare of Differently Abled Persons Department.

The scheme provides the following benefits: Scholarships are provided as:

For students studying from 9th to 12th Standard: ₹4,000/per annum.
For Degree Courses: ₹6,000/per annum. 
For Postgraduate, Medical, Engineering, Vocational, and Other Professional Courses: ₹7,000/per annum.

Eligibility criteria include: The beneficiary must be a student.
The beneficiary must be a differently abled person. 
The beneficiary must be a student of the following courses:

  9th to 12th Standard.
  Degree Courses.
  Postgraduate, Medical, Engineering, Vocational, and Other Professional Courses.

The beneficiary must be differently abled, who are studying in governmentrecognized schools/colleges/training centers. 
The beneficiary must have obtained not less than 40% of the marks in the previous qualifying examination. The application process is as follows: Step 1: The interested applicant should visit (during office hours) the District Differently Abled Welfare Officer and request a hard copy of the prescribed format of the application form from the staff exclusively entrusted to issue and collect filledin applications.
Step 2: In the application form, fill in all the mandatory fields, and attach copies of all the mandatory documents (selfattest, if required).
Step 3: Submit the duly filled and signed application form along with the documents to the District Differently Abled Welfare Officer.
Step 4: Request a receipt or acknowledgment from the District Differently Abled Welfare Officer to whom the application has been submitted. Ensure that the receipt contains essential details such as the date and time of submission, and a unique identification number (if applicable). For more information, please refer to: Citizen's Charter (2022): https://cms.tn.gov.in/sites/default/files/documents/wda_e_cc_2022_23.pdf Tags associated with the scheme include: Different Abled Person, Education, Scholarship, Student.