The name of this welfare scheme is ICAR National Professor And National Fellow. It is also known as ICAR NPANF. NATIONAL PROFESSORIAL
To promote excellence by recognizing outstanding scientists with proven output and outcomes for creating a culture of basic research through their project work in the National Agricultural Research System (NARS). Establishing and nurturing a novel school of thought around the recognized person.


Number of Positions
The total number of positions of ICAR National Professors would not exceed ten (10) at any given time. These will include one B.P. Pal Chair in Genetics and Plant Breeding at IARI, New Delhi and one Norman Borlaug Chair in International Agriculture located in ICARAgricultural
University System.
Salary
The ICAR National Professor would be appointed with a monthly pay of Rs. 75,000/- (fixed) along with admissible allowances and as revised from time to time.
Nature of Award
The award of the National Professor will be tenurial in nature. He/she will be appointed for an initial tenure of five years, which can be extended for one or more tenures of five years subject to quality performance as assessed by the Selection Committee but not beyond 65
years of age.


Service Conditions

1. The ICAR National Professor who continues to serve under the Scheme up to 65 years of age will stand retired at the age as applicable for other scientists in the sponsoring institution. However, he/she will continue as ICAR National Professor till the end of the tenure or 65 years of age whichever is earlier, 
1. The ICAR National Professor will be eligible for pension and benefits fixed on the salary at the time of attaining the age of superannuation in the normal course as per the rules of the sponsoring institution.
1. The responsibility of providing pension and other retirement benefits will rest with the sponsoring institution. However, these will be received by him/her after he/she ceases to be ICAR National Professor.
1. For all practical purposes, the scientist appointed as ICAR National Professor will remain an employee of the sponsoring organization and he/she shall continue to enjoy the benefits of leave, medical facilities/accommodation etc. as any other employee of the sponsoring organization.
1. In case the ICAR National Professor is from a sponsoring institution outside the ICAR, the Council will not be responsible for his/her continuation and protection of service interests in his/her sponsoring organization 
1. The National Professor, if from outside ICAR, will not be absorbed in the ICAR on completion of the tenure.
1. ICAR National Professor is expected to devote full time for his/her approved project and shall not engage him/herself on any other work except for the projects related to the theme of his agreed research work-plan and with prior approval of the Council. He/she would not accept any other position in the University/Institute except Chairmanship/membership of important scientific committees.
1. ICAR National Professor shall have total academic freedom in the planning and execution of his/her approved project and shall have requisite administrative control over staff working under him/her in his/her project. Need-based adequate support from the sponsoring institution must be extended for his/her work. He/she must not be burdened with routine administrative responsibilities of the Institute/University. 
1. The scientists associated with the National Professor will be Co-Principal Investigators in the National Professor project but will be allowed to submit Research Project Files(RPF) or projects in equivalent formats under the National Professor&#39;s overall research Workplan/ thematic areas and shall have the status of Principal Investigator of a regular Institute/University project for Agricultural Scientist Recruitment Board(ASRB) and related markings,
1. ICAR National Professor will be permitted by the ICAR to accept foreign assignments, befitting his/her status in an international organization for a total period of not exceeding six months during each term of five years (not allowed to be cumulative over the terms), after completing at least one year in the position. Participation in conferences, seminars, symposiums etc. will not be construed as such an assignment.
1. ICAR National Professor may apply for or accept any other regular or term offer/appointment within the country or abroad after a minimum period of five years as a National Professor. On selection to the regular or term appointment and with effect from joining the same, the ICAR National Professor shall cease to be an ICAR National Professor.
1. The award of ICAR National Professor should be consummated within six months from the date of issue of the Award Letter and no extension will be given beyond six months.



NATIONAL FELLOWSHIP
To promote excellence at the national level in agricultural research and education. To recognize the meritorious contribution of individual agricultural scientists/teachers and facilitate their research and related activities in agriculture.


Number of Fellowships
The total number of positions of ICAR National Fellows would not exceed twenty-five (25) at any given time.
Salary

- Irrespective of the previous emoluments, the [CAR National Fellow would be appointed in the Pay Band - IV of Rs. 37,400 — 67,000 with Research Grade Pay of Rs. 10,000/-, per month or as applicable/revised from time to time.
- His/her starting pay would be determined/fixed by the Council as per relevant ICAR rules. 



Nature of appointment
The appointment of the National Fellow will be tenurial in nature but not beyond the age of superannuation as prevalent at his/her sponsoring institution. An ICAR National Fellow will be appointed for an initial tenure of five years, which can be extended for one more, i.e., second tenure of five years subject to the quality performance as assessed by the Search-cum-Selection Committee. Only in case of exceptionally good contributions, as assessed by the Selection Committee, the tenure may be further extended for the third and final term of five years or until superannuation whichever is earlier.


Service Conditions

1. In case the ICAR National Fellow is from a sponsoring institution outside the ICAR, the Council will not be responsible for his/her continuation and protection of service interests in his/her sponsoring organization.
1. The age of superannuation for an ICAR National Fellow, if not from an ICAR institution, would remain the same as in the sponsoring institution.
1. The Fellow, if from outside the ICAR, will not be absorbed in the ICAR on completion of the tenure.
1. ICAR National Fellow is expected to devote full time for his/her approved project and shall not engage him/herself on any other work.
1. ICAR National Fellow will be permitted by the ICAR to accept foreign assignment, befitting his/her status in an international organization for a total period of not exceeding three months during each term of five years (not allowed to be cumulative over the terms), after completing at least one year in the project/fellowship. Participation in conferences, seminars, symposium etc. will not be construed as such an assignment.
1. ICAR National Fellow may apply for or accept any other regular or term offer/appointment within the country or abroad after a minimum period of three years as National Fellow. On selection to the regular or term appointment and with effect from joining the same, the Fellow shall cease to be an ICAR National Fellow.
1. The offer of appointment as ICAR National Fellow should be consummated within six months from the date of issue of the order and no extension will be given beyond six months. The scheme targets beneficiaries such as Individual. The implementing agency is Indian Council Of Agricultural Research. Additionally, the nodal ministry is Ministry Of Agriculture and Farmers Welfare and the nodal department is Department of Agriculture Research and Education.

It falls under the categories: Education & Learning.

Eligibility criteria include: National Professor 

Indian nationals occupying positions of Professors/Principal Scientists or equivalent for at least 8 years and their age being not more than 60 years as on the specified date are eligible for nomination.
Nominations from the sponsoring institutions would be invited in the prescribed format that will include a detailed research project proposal. The nomination should be supported and recommended by the Agricultural University/ICAR Research Institute where he/she proposes to locate himself/herself. The sponsoring Agricultural University/Institute would undertake to agree to the service conditions of these guidelines and would provide the logistics comprising necessary basic facilities and support for his/her work.
The nominee should have made significant contributions in the form of knowledge and technology generation as evidenced by published work in highimpact journals, product/ process/ methodology generated, variety/ breed/ stocks released and notified, innovations as patents/protections etc. Publications, as invited plenary/lead fulllength Papers, presented and published in International/ National Conferences will also be considered for this purpose, Significant output and outcome/impact of knowledge/technology generated by the nominee should be explicitly evident. 



National Fellow

Only Professors/Principal Scientists/Associate Professors/Senior Scientists/those Research Scientists who are in equivalent positions and standing would be eligible for consideration for appointment as ICAR National fellows.
The applicant should not be more than 52 years of age on the specified date. He/she should possess a Ph.D. degree. The applicant should have an academic/research experience of at least 10 years out of which a minimum of 3 years should be in the rank of Senior Scientist or equivalent position along with significant contributions in the form of knowledge and technology generation as evidenced by published work in NAAS rated journals, product/process/methodology, released and notified variety/breed/stocks, innovations as patents/protections etc. Significant output and outcome/impact of knowledge/technology generated by the candidate should be explicitly stated. Publications in proceedings of seminars/symposia/conferences etc. and abstracts will not be considered at all for this purpose. For more information, please refer to: Guideline: https://icar.org.in/files/RGL-06102016--revisedcompressed.pdf Details: file:///C:/Users/NeGD/Downloads/Inviting%20application%20for%20the%20award%20of%20ICAR%20National%20Professor%202022-2.pdf Tags associated with the scheme include: Agricultural, ICAR, National Fellow, National Professor.