The name of this welfare scheme is Free Supply of Note Books to the Children of Poor Widows. It is also known as FSNBCPW. The scheme &quot;Free Supply of Note Books to the Children of Poor Widows&quot; was launched by the Social Welfare and Nutritious Meal Programme Department, Government of Tamil Nadu. The scheme aims to supply notebooks to children of poor widows studying up to higher secondary courses. The scheme has been extended to children in govt. children&#39;s homes and service homes. The scheme targets beneficiaries such as Individual. It is specifically implemented in Tamil Nadu. Additionally, the nodal department is Social Welfare and Nutritious Meal Programme Department.

The scheme provides the following benefits: Note Books are supplied free of cost as mentioned below:

1st to 2nd Standard – Books worth ₹50/(per child per annum).
3rd to 5th Standard Books worth ₹125/(per child per annum).
6th to 8th Standard Books worth 175/(per child per annum).
9th to 10th Standard Books worth ₹300/(per child per annum).
11th to 12th Standard Books worth ₹600/(per child per annum).

Eligibility criteria include: The applicant should be a child of a poor widow.
The applicant should be a student.
The applicant should be studying in higher secondary. 
The applicant&#39;s family income should not exceed ₹24,000/per annum. The application process is as follows: Step 1: The interested applicant should visit (during office hours) the District Social Welfare Officer/Extension Officer (SW)/Rural Welfare Officer (Women) and request a hard copy of the prescribed format of the application form from the staff exclusively entrusted to issue and collect filledin applications.
Step 2: In the application form, fill in all the mandatory fields, and attach copies of all the mandatory documents (selfattest, if required).
Step 3: Submit the duly filled and signed application form along with the documents to the District Social Welfare Officer/Extension Officer (SW)/Rural Welfare Officer (Women) 
Step 4: Request a receipt or acknowledgment from the District Social Welfare Officer/Extension Officer (SW)/Rural Welfare Officer (Women) to whom the application has been submitted. Ensure that the receipt contains essential details such as the date and time of submission, and a unique identification number (if applicable). For more information, please refer to: Citizen's Charter (2011): https://cms.tn.gov.in/sites/default/files/whatsnew/socialwelfare.pdf Tags associated with the scheme include: Children, Education, Notebook, Widow.