The name of this welfare scheme is Early Intervention Center for the Children with Intellectually Disabled. It is also known as EICCID. The &quot;Early Intervention Center for the Children with Intellectually Disabled&quot; was launched by the Department for the Welfare of Differently Abled Persons, Government of Tamil Nadu. Early intervention Center for children with intellectual disabilities have been established in all the districts to benefit 50 children in each district, except Dharmapuri. These centers have been established through NGOs. 
> Objective

The main objective of these Center is to identify children with intellectual disability and children with allied disabilities at birth and to provide early intervention. The scheme targets beneficiaries such as Individual. It is specifically implemented in Tamil Nadu. Additionally, the nodal department is Welfare of Differently Abled Persons Department.

The scheme provides the following benefits: Early intervention provides to children with intellectual disabilities.

Eligibility criteria include: The beneficiary child&#39;s age should be 6 years or below. 
The child with intellectual disability and allied disabilities is eligible. The application process is as follows: Step 1: The parents/guardian should visit (during office hours) the District Differently Abled Welfare Officer and request a hard copy of the prescribed format of the application form from the staff exclusively entrusted to issue and collect filledin applications.
Step 2: In the application form, fill in all the mandatory fields, and attach copies of all the mandatory documents (selfattest, if required).
Step 3: Submit the duly filled and signed application form along with the documents to the District Differently Abled Welfare Officer.
Step 4: Request a receipt or acknowledgment from the District Differently Abled Welfare Officer to whom the application has been submitted. Ensure that the receipt contains essential details such as the date and time of submission, and a unique identification number (if applicable). For more information, please refer to: Citizen's Charter (2022): https://cms.tn.gov.in/sites/default/files/documents/wda_e_cc_2022_23.pdf Tags associated with the scheme include: Disability, Infant, Intellectual, Young Children.