The name of this welfare scheme is Hostel Scheme for Disabled Students. It is also known as HSDS. The &amp;quot;Hostel Scheme for Disabled Students&amp;quot; scheme was started by the Social Justice and Empowerment of Persons with Disabilities Department, Government of Madhya Pradesh on 08.09.2008. The objective of the scheme is to provide hostel facilities to such disabled students who are taking admission in class 11th and above on a regular basis and in case of hostel facilities are not available in schools/colleges, by renting private buildings.
     Under this scheme, the expenditure on electricity and water in each hostel will be borne by the government at the rate of ₹1,000/- per month. If the expenditure is more than this, the additional amount will be borne equally by the students. Only house rent, electricity, and water tax shall be borne by the Social Justice Department. Utensils, equipment, furniture, ration, water, cleaning, newspaper, sweeper, etc. rest of the arrangements will have to be made by the students themselves. The Department has no liability for this. The scheme targets beneficiaries such as Individual. It is specifically implemented in Madhya Pradesh. The implementing agency is Social Justice And Empowerment Of Persons With Disabilities Department, Government Of Madhya Pradesh. Additionally, the nodal department is Department of Social Justice and Empowerment of Persons with Disabilities.

The scheme provides the following benefits: Under the scheme, the following benefits are provided to the eligible students who are not getting hostel facility from schools/colleges:

  Rental Assistance: Beneficiaries receive ₹750/per month for renting a student home, the District Officer or Social Justice will approve.  Utility Support: Students are given ₹1,000/per month to cover electricity and water charges for the student home.  Rent Approval: The District Collector approves a student home rent of up to ₹1,500/per month.

Eligibility criteria include: The applicant should be a resident of Madhya Pradesh.
   The applicant should be a person with a disability, with a disability percentage of 40 or more.
   The applicant should be studying in Class 11 or higher at any recognized government or private educational institution.
   The student should be enrolled as a regular student in a minimum twoyear diploma course at a Government Higher Secondary School, College, or Polytechnic College.
   The annual income of the applicant&amp;#39;s parents or guardians must not exceed ₹96,000/.

Note 1: To avail of student home facilities, there must be at least 5 girls or 5 boys students.
Note 2: Hostels for boys and girls will be in separate buildings.
Note 3: Disability above 40% as defined in Section2 of the Persons with Disabilities (Equal Opportunities, Protection of Rights and Full Participation) Act, Note 4: Principals of Government/NonGovernment Institutions will be competent to grant admission.
Note 5: Students eligible for or already receiving a postmatriculation scholarship, who have an excellent character and are committed to fulfilling the scheme’s requirements, will receive the postmatriculation scholarship at the hostel rate only.
Note 6: The students of the hostel are not eligible for any state scholarship. The application process is as follows: Application in prescribed format.pdf) should be submitted to the District Office of Social Justice and Disabled Welfare.
Note 1: The District Officer Social Justice will be authorized for competent approval.
Note 2: After inspecting the house, the District Divisional Officer or the Principal will take into account the electricity, water, toilet, building in good condition, proximity to educational institutions, facility of the students etc. For more information, please refer to: Official Website: https://socialjustice.mp.gov.in/schemes/view/eWl6N3NIUFc2bzQ3Tjl1UUNyRmRCQT09 Guidelines: https://socialjustice.mp.gov.in/uploads/files/Order__36(1).pdf Scheme Details: https://cmhelpline.mp.gov.in/KnowYourEntitleDetail.aspx?Schemeid=369 Scheme Details (Page No. 141): https://aiggpa.mp.gov.in/uploads/publication/Social_Protection_Eng.pdf Tags associated with the scheme include: Disabled Student, Higher Education, Hostel, PwD, Rental Assistance.