The name of this welfare scheme is Chief Minister Arogya Arunachal Yojana. It is also known as CMAAY. Launched on 15th August 2018, &quot;Chief Minister Arogya Arunachal Yojana&quot; is a flagship program of the Department of Health and Family Welfare, Government of Arunachal Pradesh. The scheme aims to accord quality and cashless healthcare services to the indigenous people of the state and government employees and reduce out-of-pocket (OOP) expenses during major illness and hospitalization, thereby envisaging universal healthcare for all sections of society.
> Objectives


- To reduce the financial hardship on people in the state due to disease and hospitalization.
- To equitably ensure assured access to quality health care for all bonafide citizens of the state.
- To provide quality health care benefits for state government employees and their dependents.
- To make the public health system efficient, effective, and self-reliant by receipt of claim refunds into the individual government hospital accounts. 
- To fulfill the secondary and tertiary health care gap in the state. The scheme targets beneficiaries such as Individual. It is specifically implemented in Arunachal Pradesh. Additionally, the nodal department is Health and Family Welfare Department.

The scheme provides the following benefits: Coverage of up to ₹5,00,000 per family per year.
Cashless treatments during hospitalization.
Preexisting diseases are inclusively covered.
The scheme encompasses expenses for prehospitalization for up to 3 days.
Posthospitalization expenses for up to 10 days are covered.
Hospitalization expenses include:

Registration Charges, Bed Charges (General Ward), Nursing and Boarding Charges, Surgeons, Anaesthetists, Medical Practitioners, Consultants Fees, etc..
Anaesthesia, Blood Transfusion, Oxygen, Operating Theatre (OT) Charges, Cost of Surgical Appliances, etc., Medicines and Drugs, Cost of Prosthetic Devices, Implants, etc., Pathology and Radiology Tests: Radiology to Include but Not Be Limited to Xray, Magnetic Resonance Imaging (MRI), Computed Tomography (CT) Scan, etc., Diagnosis and Tests, etc., Food for the Patient.

Pre and Posthospitalization expenses encompass costs incurred for consultation, diagnostic tests, and medicines before the patient&#39;s admission to the hospital. Additionally, it covers the cost of diagnostic tests and medicines up to 10 days postdischarge for the same ailment/surgery.
All other expenses related to the patient&#39;s treatment within the hospital are also covered.
NOTE: In the case the applicant has employment with the state government, the insurance program’s benefits are also available to their dependents.

Eligibility criteria include: The applicant should belong to one of the tribal communities that are recognized by the state of Arunachal Pradesh.
The applicant should be legally residing in the Changlang, Lohit, or Namsai Districts of Arunachal Pradesh.
The applicant should be a member of one of the backward communities.
The people who are enrolled in the Arunachal Pradesh Scheduled Tribe (APST) are directly eligible.
In the case the applicant has employment with the state government, the insurance program’s benefits are also available to their dependents. The application process is as follows: Step 1: Visit the Official Portal of CMAAY.
Step 2: Scroll down to the bottom of the homepage. In the &quot;Enrollment&quot; section, click &#39;Apply Online&#39;.
Step 3: In the enrollment form, fill in all the mandatory fields, upload all the mandatory documents, and click &quot;Submit&quot;.
Step 4: Upon successful enrollment, the beneficiary can download the eCard.


> Check Application Status

Step 1: Visit the &quot;Check Status&quot; page of CMAAY.
Step 2: Enter your District and your URN / Aadhaar Number. Click &quot;Search&quot;. For more information, please refer to: Guidelines: https://cmaay.com/pdf/Notification%20CMAAY%20Guidelines.pdf FAQs: https://cmaay.com/CMAAYFAQ.aspx# Eligibility Criteria: https://cmaay.com/CMAAYeligibility.aspx Contact Us: https://cmaay.com/EC.aspx Benefits: https://cmaay.com/Hospitalization.aspx Tags associated with the scheme include: Health, Hospital, Medical, Patient, Surgery.