The name of this welfare scheme is Additional Pension to 100% Disabled Ex-Serviceman having Children. It is also known as APDESMC. The scheme &amp;quot;Additional Pension to 100% Disabled Ex-Serviceman having Children&amp;quot; is implemented by the Sainik and Ardh Sainik Welfare Department, Government of Haryana. Under the scheme, an additional pension is provided to 100% disabled ex-servicemen who were members of the Armed Forces and have been released from service due to 100% disability or permanent incapacity to work, provided the disability or incapacity is attributable to service. The additional pension amount is given only for up to three children and continues until the child dies, attains the age of 20 years, gets married, or becomes employed, whichever is the earliest. The additional pension will be reduced proportionately as a child dies or attains the age of 20 years or gets married or gets employed. The scheme targets beneficiaries such as Individual. It is specifically implemented in Haryana. The implementing agency is Sainik And Ardh Sainik Welfare Department, Government Of Haryana. Additionally, the nodal department is Sainik and Ardh Sainik Welfare Department.

The scheme provides the following benefits: The rates of additional pension admissible under the scheme are as follows:
Sl. No.CategoryAdditional Pension Amount1Other Ranks₹100/per child per month subject to a maximum of ₹300/2JCO’s₹150/per child per month subject to a maximum of ₹450/3Officers₹200/per child per month subject to a maximum of ₹600/Mode of Payment:
Each Secretary of District Sainik Board will make payment of additional pension on a quarterly basis by money order or in cash, as may be convenient.

Eligibility criteria include: The applicant should be a permanent resident of Haryana.
   The applicant should be an Exserviceman. An exserviceman means a member of the Armed Forces who is released from service due to 100% disability or permanent incapacity to work and the disability or incapacity is attributable to service.
   The applicant should have 100% disability.
   The benefit is provided for up to three children.
   The benefit continues until the child dies, attains the age of 20 years, gets married, or becomes employed, whichever is the earliest.

Note 1: Every eligible person shall give a certificate of eligibility on a halfyearly basis, in Form III and send it to the concerned Secretary of the District Sainik Board so as to reach him within the months of June and December every year.
Note 2: As and when one or more children of the eligible person die or reach the age of 20 years or get married or secure employment, it shall be the responsibility of the eligible person/guardian to inform the Secretary of the District Sainik Board in this regard. The application process is as follows: &gt; Registration Process on AntyodayaSARAL Portal:

Step 01: The eligible applicant may apply online through the Official PortalAntyodayaSARAL Portal. 
Step 02: If the applicant is not registered on the portal, he/she gets registered there. 
Step 03: For registration, click “New User” under ‘Sign In Here’ and fill in all the mandatory details i.e. Name, Email ID, Mobile Number, Password &amp;amp; State. Click on ‘Submit’.
Step 04: Verify your mobile number and email ID through the received OTP and complete the registration process.
&gt; Login to apply for the scheme:

Step 01: To avail the benefits of the scheme, visit the Official AntyodayaSARAL Portal and log in through the email ID used while registering.
Step 02: Enter Password &amp;amp; Captcha and click on ‘Login’.
Step 03: After successful login, click on ‘Apply for Services’ and then ‘View all Available Services’
Step 04: Now, you can search for the scheme and download the predefined Affidavit form/template and you will need to upload the filledin/signed form/template in the &amp;#39;Attach Enclosures&amp;#39; screen.
Step 05: Click on ‘Proceed to Apply’ to fill out the application form. Enter your Parivar Pehchan Patra numberFamily ID and click on “Click here to Fetch Family Data” which displays the family members registered under the given Family ID.
Step 06: Select the beneficiary/applicant name and enter the OTP that is being sent to the selected family member for verification. Click on “Click to Verify”
Step 07: Fill in all the mandatory details and upload all the mandatory documents.
Step 08: Preview the application form and click on ‘Submit’.
&gt; Tracking of Application:

Applicants can track their applications through the Official AntyodayaSARAL Portal by entering their Department Name, Scheme Name, and Application Reference ID. For more information, please refer to: Scheme Details: https://kms.saralharyana.nic.in/ViewDoc?Id=hM5OQxY5WVYrlVUPtSt+Vw%3d%3d Notification: https://csharyana.gov.in/WriteReadData/Policies/Defence-II/2526.pdf Antyodaya-SARAL Portal: https://saralharyana.gov.in/ Tags associated with the scheme include: Disability, Ex-Serviceman, Pension, PwD, Sainik.