The name of this welfare scheme is Pre-Matric Scholarship. It is also known as PMRS. Education is top seeded to uplift the backward classes. Because of lack of education, a social category remains backward. Inspite of long duration passed since independence of the country, expected improvement is not seen in the educational status of Other Backward Classes. Many efforts have been made to improve the educational status.  At present, Fee Reimbursement scheme is being operated in online mode by Department of Backward Classes Welfare with the objective of development of backward classes and uplifting their educational status.  Under this scheme, students of Other Backward Classes studying in all government schools, aided and recognized educational institute are being provided with the scholarship each year.  Department of Backward Classes Welfare is continuously working to uplift the educational status of backward classes. The scheme targets beneficiaries such as Individual. Additionally, the nodal ministry is Ministry Of Social Justice and Empowerment.

The scheme provides the following benefits: Monthly Rs. 150/for a maximum of 10 months. 
Annually Rs. 750/ad hoc grant in one go.

Eligibility criteria include: Native and studying in Uttar Pradesh. 
Annual income of the parents/guardians of the students upto Rs. 2 Lakh.
Students studying in government schools, aided and recognized educational institutes (provided the availability of the budget). ред The application process is as follows: First of all, OBC students need to click on Option in the Student Section of  website.Student Registration.
Fill out the application form.
Print out of application form.
Deposit the print out along with all the enclosures in the educational institute.
Verify and forward the application form by an educational institute.
Verify and forward the application by Education Officer.
Examine and match the data at state N.I.C. level.
Approve/disapprove by the District Approval Committee.
Lock the approved data with the digital signature by District Backward Class Welfare Officer.
Generate the demand by the Directorate based on the data available on N.I.C.
Depositing of the amount directly in the bank account of the student. For more information, please refer to: Guidelines: https://www.backwardwelfareup.gov.in/en/page/prematric Tags associated with the scheme include: Education, Financial Assistance, Student Welfare.