The name of this welfare scheme is Scheme Of Assistance To Disabled Persons For Purchase/Fitting Of Aids/Appliances. It is also known as SADPPFAA. The &quot;Scheme of Assistance to Disabled Persons for Purchase/Fitting of Aids/Appliances&quot; or the &quot;ADIP Scheme&quot; was launched on 1st Jan 1981 by the Department of Empowerment of Persons with Disabilities, Ministry of Social Justice &amp; Empowerment, to assist the disabled persons in procuring suitable, durable, scientifically-manufactured, modern, standard aids and appliances, that can promote their physical, social and psychological rehabilitation by reducing the effects of disabilities and enhance their economic potential. Assistive devices are given to PwDs with the aim to improve their independent functioning and to arrest the extent of disability and occurrence of secondary disability. The Scheme shall also include under its ambit, medical/surgical correction &amp; intervention, which is essential prior to the fitment of aids and appliances. The cost could range from ₹ 500/- for the hearing &amp; speech impaired to ₹ 1,000/- for the visually disabled and ₹ 3,000/- for the Orthopaedically disabled. The Scheme is approved for continuation upto 31st March 2026.


Objective - 
The main objective of the Scheme is to assist needy disabled persons in procuring durable, sophisticated, scientifically manufactured, modern, standard aids and appliances that can promote their physical, social and psychological rehabilitation, by reducing the effects of disabilities and enhancing their economic potential.


Scope - 
The Scheme will be implemented through the Implementing Agencies. The Agencies will be provided with financial assistance for the purchase, fabrication, and distribution of such standard aids and appliances that are in conformity with the objective of the Scheme. The Implementing Agencies will take care of/make suitable arrangements for fitting and post-fitting care of the aids and appliances distributed under the ADIP Scheme. The scope of the scheme has been further enlarged to include the use of mass media, exhibitions, workshops, etc. for the exchange of information and promoting awareness and distribution and use of aids/appliances. The scheme targets beneficiaries such as Individual. Additionally, the nodal ministry is Ministry Of Social Justice and Empowerment and the nodal department is Department Of Empowerment Of Persons With Disabilities.

It falls under the categories: Social welfare & Empowerment.

Eligibility criteria include: > ELIGIBILITY OF IMPLEMENTING AGENCIES



The following agencies are eligible to implement the Scheme on behalf of the Department of Empowerment of Persons with Disabilities (Divyangjan) under the aegis of the Ministry of Social Justice and Empowerment, subject to fulfillment of the following terms and conditions:



Societies and their branches, if any, were registered separately under the Societies Registration Act, of Registered Charitable Trusts.
Indian Red Cross Societies and other Autonomous Bodies headed by District Collector/Chief Executive Officer/District Development Officer.
National/Apex Institutes, CRCs, RCs, DDRCs, National Trust, ALIMCO, functioning under the administrative control of the Ministry of Social Justice and Empowerment/Ministry of Health and Family Welfare.
National/State Handicapped Development Corporations.
Local Bodies – Zilla Parishad, Municipalities, District Autonomous Development Councils and Panchayats, etc.
Hospitals registered as separate entities, as recommended by State/UT/Central Govt.
Nehru Yuva Kendras.
Any other organization as deemed fit by the Department of Empowerment of Persons with Disabilities, Ministry of Social Justice &amp; Empowerment, Govt. of India.



NOTE: Grantinaid under the Scheme will not be given for commercial production or supply of aids/appliances.


While approving new implementing agencies, preference would be given to those Agencies:
(i)   Which employ professional/technical expertise, in the form of professionally qualified staff (from RCI recognized courses) for identification, prescription of the required aids/appliances, fitment and postfitment care of beneficiaries as well as aids/appliances.
(ii)   Possess infrastructure in the form of machinery/equipment for fabrication, fitment, and maintenance of aids/appliances to be given to a person with a disability under the ADIP Scheme and which have the capacity to produce aids and assistive devices with ISI standards/ISO certification.


> ELIGIBILITY OF THE BENEFICIARIES


An Indian citizen of any age.
Holding a 40% Disability Certificate (Benchmark disability).
Having monthly income from all sources not exceeding Rs.30,000/per month.
In the case of dependents, the income of parents/guardians not exceeding Rs. 30,000/per month.
Not having received assistance during the last 3 years for the same purpose from any source. However, for children below 12 years of age, the minimum time of assistance is one year.



> Identification of Beneficiaries



i. Through Camp Activity:
Implementing agencies will carry out assessments of beneficiaries in camp mode at district levels.


ii. Through Headquarter Activity:
The National  Institutes/CRCs/ALIMCO/ DDRCs and other implementing agencies will utilize the grants to extend services to eligible beneficiaries who approach their headquarters or their respective Regional Centres.


iii. Through Common Service Centres (CSCs):
The Department will enter into an MOU with the CSCs functioning all over the country at Block, Taluka, and Gram Panchayat levels for registration of beneficiaries who need aids and assistive devices under the ADIP Scheme.


iv. Through Mobile App:
In order to facilitate the beneficiaries in getting aids and assistive devices, a Mobile app will be launched by the Department which will enable beneficiaries to either place requests for new assistive devices(new registrations) or repair existing devices (existing users). The requests so received on the app will be compiled in the Department of Empowerment of Persons with Disabilities.


v. Through Management Information System (MIS)/ADIP Web Portal: 
The portal will facilitate PwDs for an online request for providing aids &amp; assistive devices to the eligible beneficiaries within 6 months from the date of such registration on the Portal. For more information, please refer to: Guidelines: https://disabilityaffairs.gov.in/upload/uploadfiles/files/Revised%20ADIP%20Scheme%202022%20English.pdf FAQs: https://adip.disabilityaffairs.gov.in/ADIP/faq_adip Tags associated with the scheme include: Aids And Appliances, Person With Disability, PwD, Social Welfare.