The name of this welfare scheme is Readers Allowance to Visually Impaired Persons. It is also known as RATVIP. &#39;Readers Allowance to Visually Impaired Persons&#39; scheme was launched by the Department for the Welfare of Differently Abled Persons, Government of Tamil Nadu. The scheme aims to provide readers allowance to visually impaired students, specific allowance rates based on the education level ranging from secondary school to postgraduate and professional courses. The scheme targets beneficiaries such as Individual. It is specifically implemented in Tamil Nadu. Additionally, the nodal department is Welfare of Differently Abled Persons Department.

The scheme provides the following benefits: > Reader&#39;s allowance is being paid at the following rate:


9th To 10th Standard ₹3,000/(per annum).Degree Courses ₹5,000/(per annum).
Post Graduate and Professional Courses ₹6,000/(per annum).

Eligibility criteria include: The applicant should be a visually impaired student.
The applicant enrolled in 9th standard or above in a recognized/bonafide institution. The application process is as follows: Step 1: The interested applicant should visit (during office hours) the District Differently Abled Welfare Officer and request a hard copy of the prescribed format of the application form from the staff exclusively entrusted to issue and collect filledin applications.
Step 2: In the application form, fill in all the mandatory fields, and attach copies of all the mandatory documents (selfattest, if required).
Step 3: Submit the duly filled and signed application form along with the documents to the District Differently Abled Welfare Officer.
Step 4: Request a receipt or acknowledgment from the District Differently Abled Welfare Officer to whom the application has been submitted. Ensure that the receipt contains essential details such as the date and time of submission, and a unique identification number (if applicable). For more information, please refer to: Citizen's Charter (2022): https://cms.tn.gov.in/sites/default/files/documents/wda_e_cc_2022_23.pdf Tags associated with the scheme include: Differently-abled Person, Financial Assistance, Readers Allowance, Student, Visually Impaired.