The name of this welfare scheme is Grant of Subsidy for Purchase of Mangalyam to the Bridegroom of Weaker Section. It is also known as GSPMBWS. The scheme “Grant of Subsidy for Purchase of Mangalyam to the Bridegroom of Weaker Section” by the Department of Women &amp; Child Development, Government of Pondicherry, was introduced to provide Financial Assistance of ₹ 2,500/- to the Bridegroom from Weaker Section. The application for this scheme should be submitted 15 days before the date of marriage. It is specifically implemented in Puducherry. Additionally, the nodal department is Women and Child Development Department, Puducherry.

The scheme provides the following benefits: Financial Assistance of ₹ 2,500/.

Eligibility criteria include: The applicant should be a citizen of India.
The bridegroom should be above 21 years of age.
The bride should be above 18 years of age.
The bridegroom should be a native of the UT of Pondicherry.
The annual income of the bridegroom and his parents should be less than ₹ 24,000/­.
The application should be submitted 15 days before the date of marriage. The application process is as follows: Step 1: The interested applicant should visit (during office hours) the Office/ SubOffice of the Department of Women and Child Development, and request the hard copy of the prescribed format of the application form from the staff exclusively entrusted to issue and collect filledin applications.
Step 2: In the application form, fill in all the mandatory fields, paste the passportsized photograph (signed across, if required), and attach copies of all the mandatory documents (selfattest, if required).
Step 3: Submit the duly filled and signed application form along with the documents to the Deputy Director (Women Development) or the Child Development Project Officer (depending on the location), at least 30 days before the proposed marriage date.
Step 4: Request a receipt or acknowledgment from the concerned authority to whom the application has been submitted. Ensure that the receipt contains essential details such as the date and time of submission, and a unique identification number (if applicable). Step 1: Visit the Official Website of the eDistrict Portal of the Government of Puducherry.
Step 2: At the top right corner of the home page, click &quot;Login&quot;. In the login screen, click &quot;Register a New Membership&quot;.
Step 3: On the Registration Page, fill in all the mandatory fields: Username, Password, Confirm Password, Personal Details (Full Name, First Name, Email Address, Address, Current Address, Gender, Date of Birth, Mobile Number). Agree to the declaration. Fill in the Captcha Code, and click &quot;Signup&quot;.
Step 4: Visit the Official Website of the eDistrict Portal of the Government of Puducherry.
Step 5: At the top right corner of the home page, click &quot;Login&quot;. In the login screen, provide your Username and Password, fill in the Captcha Code, and click &quot;Sign In&quot;.
Step 6: On the next screen, a list of schemes by the Government of Puducherry will be displayed Departmentwise.
Step 7: Click on the scheme you wish to apply for. You will be taken to its online application form.
Step 8: In the application form, fill in all the mandatory fields (marked with a red asterisk) and upload all the mandatory documents (selfattest if required). 
Step 9: Tick the declaration stating &quot;I hereby declare that the abovementioned details are true and correct as per the best of my Knowledge&quot;. Submit the application and note the application number for tracking your application. The application number will also be received on your Registered Mobile Number / Registered Email ID.
Track Your Application here
 Access the User Manual for Online Application here For more information, please refer to: Guidelines: https://py.gov.in/sites/default/files/womenrtimanual.pdf Contact Us: https://wcd.py.gov.in/contact-us Office Locations: https://wcd.py.gov.in/office-locations Grievance Redressal: https://wcd.py.gov.in/ta/central-public-grievance-redress-and-monitoring-system Track Your Application: https://edistrict.py.gov.in/User/TrackApplication.aspx Tags associated with the scheme include: Bride, Bridegroom, Financial Assistance, Marriage, Subsidy.