The name of this welfare scheme is Feed And Fodder Entrepreneurship Scheme. It is also known as FFES. Objectives 

1. Establishing an effective seed production chain.
1. Capacity building of state functionaries and livestock owners in forage production, conservation and utilization.
1. Establishing convergence and synergy among ongoing Plan programmes and stakeholders for fodder resource development.



Salient Feature

1. Under this activity, the fodder seed chain i.e. breeder, foundation and certified quality fodder seed production will be incentivized.
1. This component targeted towards the multiplication of seeds of high yielding fodder varieties which has been developed through research and innovations, significantly showing better performance, for which incentives will be provided. The scheme targets beneficiaries such as Individual, Self Help Groups (SHGS). It is specifically implemented in Mizoram. Additionally, the nodal department is Animal Husbandry and Veterinary Department.

It falls under the categories: Agriculture,Rural & Environment.

Eligibility criteria include: The Entrepreneurs/ Eligible Entities shall be considered Eligible for availing benefit under the entrepreneurship programme if fulfils either of the following criteria:

   Entrepreneurs/ Eligible Entitieseither have obtained training or have trained experts or have sufficient experience in the relevant field in managing and running the project or have technical experts with sufficient experience in the relevant field of managing and running the project.
   The Entrepreneurs/ Eligible Entities have got the sanctioned loan for the project by the bank or financial institutions furnished bank guarantee from the scheduled bank along with an appraisal of the project for its validity by the bank where it is holding the account.
   The Entrepreneurs/ Eligible Entities should own land or lease land where the project will be established.
   The Entrepreneurs/ Eligible Entities have all the relevant documents for KYC. For more information, please refer to: Guidelines: https://ahvety.mizoram.gov.in/uploads/attachments/d2aa170eea17c223ac1a17f4af194019/feed-and-fodder-entrepreneurship-scheme-english.pdf Tags associated with the scheme include: Farmers Scientist Interaction, Fodder Block Making, Fodder Value Addition, Storage Facilities, Total Mixed Ration.