The name of this welfare scheme is Moovalur Ramamirtham Ammaiyar Ninaivu Marriage Assistance Scheme - II. It is also known as MRANMAS-II. The scheme &quot;Moovalur Ramamirtham Ammaiyar Ninaivu Marriage Assistance Scheme - II&quot; was launched by the Social Welfare and Nutritious Meal Programme Department, Government of Tamil Nadu. The scheme aims to provide assistance of ₹50,000/- to poor parents in getting their daughters married and to promote the educational status of poor girls. The bride should have completed 18 years of age at the time of marriage. The scheme targets beneficiaries such as Family. It is specifically implemented in Tamil Nadu. Additionally, the nodal department is Social Welfare and Nutritious Meal Programme Department.

The scheme provides the following benefits: Financial assistance of ₹50,000/.
One sovereign (4gm) 22carat gold coin for making Thirumangalyam. 

NOTE: The benefit will be given in the bride&#39;s mother or father&#39;s name. In case of the death of the parents, it will be given to the bride.

Eligibility criteria include: The applicant should be a girl.
The bride should be 18 years or above at the time of marriage.
The bride should be a degree holder from a regular college, Distance Education / Government recognized Open University Or diploma holder should have qualified from Institutions recognized by the Directorate of Technical Education, Government of Tamil Nadu.
The bride&#39;s family income should not exceed ₹24,000/per annum. 
The assistance is given to only one girl in a family. The application process is as follows: Step 1: The interested applicant should visit (during office hours) the District Social Welfare Officers and request a hard copy of the prescribed format of the application form from the staff exclusively entrusted to issue and collect filledin applications.
Step 2: In the application form, fill in all the mandatory fields, and attach copies of all the mandatory documents (selfattest, if required).
Step 3: Submit the duly filled and signed application form along with the documents to the District Social Welfare Officers.
Step 4: Request a receipt or acknowledgment from the District Social Welfare Officer/Extension Officer (SW)/Rural Welfare Officer (Women) to whom the application has been submitted. Ensure that the receipt contains essential details such as the date and time of submission, and a unique identification number (if applicable).
NOTE: The application should be submitted within 40 days before the date of the marriage. In exceptional circumstances, applications can be accepted up to one day before the marriage. For more information, please refer to: Citizen's Charter (2011): https://cms.tn.gov.in/sites/default/files/whatsnew/socialwelfare.pdf Tags associated with the scheme include: Daughter, Financial Assistance, Gold, Marriage.