The name of this welfare scheme is Pradhan Mantri Kaushal Vikas Yojana - Recognition Of Prior Learning. It is also known as PMKVY - RPL. Recognition of Prior Learning (RPL) is a skill certiﬁcation component to enable Indian youth to take on industry relevant skill certification which will help them to secure a better livelihood. Individuals with prior learning experience or skills can register themselves and get assessed and certiﬁed under the RPL component of PMKVY. It focuses mainly on individuals engaged in unregulated sectors.


Project Implementing Agencies (PIAs) such as private and public sector expert bodies in the sector, Central and State Government ministries and their institutions and other agencies designated by MSDE/NSDC are being incentivised to implement RPL projects in any of the five models (RPL camps, RPL at employer’s premises, RPL by demand, RPL with best-in-class employers and online RPL).


RPL has 12 hours of orientation. To address knowledge gaps, PIAs offer bridge courses to candidates along with the 12-hour orientation domain skills, soft skills and entrepreneurship tips and familiarization with the assessment process.


Any revisions made to these guidelines will be uploaded on the official website of PMKVY (www. pmkvyofficial.org). All stakeholders are advised to regularly check for amendments/changes, if any. The scheme targets beneficiaries such as Individual. Additionally, the nodal ministry is Ministry Of Skill Development And Entrepreneurship.

It falls under the categories: Skills & Employment.

Eligibility criteria include: RPL is applicable for any candidate of Indian nationality who:



Is of age between 1845 years
Has prior experience in the job role for which they want RPL certification and as specified by the SSCs for those job roles
Possesses an Aadhaar and Aadhaar linked bank account
Fulfills other criteria related to work experience as defined by the SSCs for the respective job roles
If target beneficiaries belong to higher age groups than those specified in point 1, the Project Implementing Agency (PIA) would have to get this approved during the sanction from the PMKVY 0 Executive Committee/State level Empowered Committee. For more information, please refer to: Scheme Guidelines: https://www.pmkvyofficial.org/photos/shares/guidlines/PMKY-Guideline_report_(08-01-2021)V3.pdf Tags associated with the scheme include: Industry Training, Kaushal, Skill, Vikas.