The name of this welfare scheme is Mahila Nirman Shramik Vivah Yojana. It is also known as MNSVY. The &quot;Mahila Nirman Shramik Vivah Yojana&quot; was launched by the Tripura Building and Other Construction Workers Welfare Board, Labour Department Tripura. The scheme aims to provide financial assistance to registered female construction workers and maximum of two daughters of registered construction workers for marriage purposes. The registered beneficiary will apply in the prescribed form through electronically. The scheme targets beneficiaries such as Individual. It is specifically implemented in Tripura. Additionally, the nodal department is Labour Department .

The scheme provides the following benefits: A onetime grant of ₹50,000/is provided to meet the marriage expenses of the female registered construction worker and a maximum of two daughters of a registered construction worker.

Eligibility criteria include: The applicant should be a female registered construction worker. 
The female construction worker should have been registered for at least one year continuously.
The family of a registered construction worker can avail of this assistance only twice: however, there shall be only one claim in respect of a given marriage irrespective of the number of registered construction workers in the family.
The registered construction workers should not have any dues payable to the Board.
The registered construction worker&#39;s daughter should have attained the age prescribed by law for marriage for whose marriage the assistance is sought.  
The registered construction worker&#39;s daughter should not be an employee in government or quasigovernment. The application process is as follows: Step 1: The applicant should gather copies of the necessary documents needed to apply for the concerned scheme.
Step 2: The applicant should visit the nearest Common Service Center (CSC) and complete the Biometric Verification Process.
Step 3: The applicant should ensure that the CSC agent completes all mandatory fields in the application form and uploads copies of all required documents.
Step 4: Request a receipt or acknowledgment from the concerned authority to whom the application has been submitted. Ensure that the receipt contains essential details such as the date and time of submission, and a unique identification number (if applicable).


NOTE: Application shall be submitted within 6 months of the marriage. For more information, please refer to: Guidelines: https://tbocwwb.tripura.gov.in/news_announcements/3435175.pdf Official Website: https://tbocwwb.tripura.gov.in/index.php Tags associated with the scheme include: Construction Workers, Female, Financial Assistance, Marriage.