The name of this welfare scheme is "Monthly Grant To Old Crafts Persons (Pension)" Component of the "Development of Handicrafts" Scheme. It is also known as MGTOCPP. The scheme “Monthly Grant To Old Crafts Persons (Pension)” Component of the &quot;Development of Handicrafts&quot; Scheme by the Department of Industries and Commerce, Union Territory of Puducherry, aims to provide pension to artisans in their old age, recognizing their contribution to traditional crafts. Under this scheme, eligible craftspersons receive a monthly grant of ₹2,000/-. The scheme targets beneficiaries such as Individual. It is specifically implemented in Puducherry. Additionally, the nodal department is Industries and Commerce Department, Puducherry.

The scheme provides the following benefits: A monthly grant of ₹2,000/. This financial assistance continues until the lifetime of the beneficiary, subject to renewal every year. 
In the case of the craftsperson&#39;s death, the living spouse is entitled to receive ₹1,000/per month.

Eligibility criteria include: The applicant should be an artisan who has attained the age of 60 years.
The artisan should be a native or resident of the Union Territory of Puducherry for at least 5 years.
The artisan should have practised the craft for at least 5 years in the Union Territory of Puducherry.
The family income from all sources should not exceed ₹40,000 per annum.
The applicant should not be a recipient of similar financial assistance from any other source. The application process is as follows: Step 1: The interested applicant should take print of the prescribed format of the application form.
Step 2: In the application form, fill in all the mandatory fields, paste the passportsized photograph (signed across, if required), and attach copies of all the mandatory documents (selfattest, if required).
Step 3: The interested applicant should visit (on a working day, and during office hours) the General Manager of the District Industries Centre (Thattanchavady, Puducherry 605 009, 2248391, 2249392, 2248987, dicpdy@bsnl.in), and submit the duly filled and signed application form and the documents to the concerned authority.
Step 4: On receipt of the application, necessary entries will be made in the application receipt register and a unique number is assigned to the applicant for identifying each applicant which shall be used for all further references and also as acknowledgement for the receipt of the application. For more information, please refer to: Guidelines: https://dic.py.gov.in/development-of-handicrafts Citizen's Charter: https://dic.py.gov.in/sites/default/files/citizencharter.pdf Contact Us: https://dic.py.gov.in/contact-us Application Form: https://dic.py.gov.in/application-forms-download-area Grievance Redressal: https://industry.py.gov.in/grievance-redressal-mechanism Tags associated with the scheme include: Death, Handicraft, Pension, Senior Citizen.