The name of this welfare scheme is Assistance for Marriage. It is also known as AFM. The scheme &quot;Assistance for Marriage&quot; was launched by the Department for the Welfare of Differently Abled Persons, Government of Tamil Nadu. Under this scheme, a sum of ₹2,000/- is given to meet the marriage expenses of the differently abled person or his son or daughter. The applications are accepted offline in the prescribed form available at the District Differently Abled Welfare Office. The scheme targets beneficiaries such as Individual, Family. It is specifically implemented in Tamil Nadu. Additionally, the nodal department is Welfare of Differently Abled Persons Department.

The scheme provides the following benefits: Financial Assistance of ₹2,000/.

Eligibility criteria include: Eligibility for differently abled person:

The applicant should be a differently abled person.
The differently abled person shall have attained the age as prescribed by law for marriage.

Eligibility for son or daughter:

The children of differentlyabled person should be holding identity card. The application process is as follows: Step 1: The interested applicant should visit (during office hours) the District Differently Abled Welfare Officer and request a hard copy of the prescribed format of the application form from the staff exclusively entrusted to issue and collect filledin applications.
Step 2: In the application form, fill in all the mandatory fields, and attach copies of all the mandatory documents (selfattest, if required).
Step 3: Submit the duly filled and signed application form along with the documents to the District Differently Abled Welfare Officer.
Step 4: Request a receipt or acknowledgment from the District Differently Abled Welfare Officer to whom the application has been submitted. Ensure that the receipt contains essential details such as the date and time of submission, and a unique identification number (if applicable). For more information, please refer to: Citizen's Charter (2022): https://cms.tn.gov.in/sites/default/files/documents/wda_e_cc_2022_23.pdf Tags associated with the scheme include: Children, Differently-abled Person, Financial Assistance, Marriage.