The name of this welfare scheme is Mukhyamantri Sports Development Scheme - Unemployed Young Professional Sportsperson. It is also known as MSDS-UYPS. Launched on 9th February 2024, the scheme &quot;Mukhyamantri Sports Development Scheme - Unemployed Young Professional Sportsperson&quot; was launched by the Directorate of Youth Affairs &amp; Sports, Government of Tripura. The scheme aims to generate employment opportunities for young experienced professional sportspersons (Junior Coach) to give a monthly fixed remuneration of ₹20,000/-. 
Duration: The contract is tenable for a maximum period of 12 months, it may be extended or curtailed The scheme targets beneficiaries such as Individual. It is specifically implemented in Tripura. Additionally, the nodal department is Youth Affairs and Sports Department.

The scheme provides the following benefits: Fixed Remuneration of ₹20,000/per month.

Eligibility criteria include: The applicant should be a resident of Tripura.
The applicant should be a young sportsperson.
The applicant should be an experienced professional.
The age of the applicant should be between 18 to 40 years (a relaxation of 5 years in the upper age limit for ST/SC candidates). The application process is as follows: Step 1: The interested applicant should take print of the prescribed format of the application form.
Step 2: In the application form, fill in all the mandatory fields, paste the passportsized photograph (signed across, if required), and attach copies of all the mandatory documents (selfattest, if required).
Step 3: Submit the duly filled and signed application form along with the documents to the Director of Youth Affairs &amp; Sports, Government of Tripura, Shiksha Bhavan, 4th Floor, Office Lane, Agartala 799 Step 4: Request a receipt or acknowledgement from the concerned authority to whom the application has been submitted. Ensure that the receipt contains essential details such as the date and time of submission, and a unique identification number (if applicable).
The applications sent by email/post/courier service etc are not accepted. For more information, please refer to: Guidelines, Application Form & Documents Required: https://yas.tripura.gov.in/sites/default/files/2024-02/ADVERTISEMENT.pdf Tags associated with the scheme include: Employment, Opportunity, Remuneration, Sports, Sportsperson, Unemployed.