The name of this welfare scheme is Pragati Scholarship Scheme For Girl Students (Technical Degree). It is also known as PSGS-DEG. A scholarship scheme by AICTE, MoE for Girl Students admitted in 1st or 2nd Year of the technical degree course in an AICTE approved institution. A maximum of two girl children per family are eligible to avail of the benefits. The benefits are provided for a period of maximum of 4 years for first-year admitted students and a maximum of 3 years for second-year admitted students through lateral entry. This scheme is an attempt to give young women the opportunity to further their education and prepare for a successful future by empowering Women through knowledge, skill, and self-confidence. The scheme targets beneficiaries such as Individual. The implementing agency is All India Council For Technical Education (AICTE). Additionally, the nodal ministry is Ministry of Education and the nodal department is Department Of Higher Education.

The scheme provides the following benefits: ₹ 50,000/per annum for every year of study, i.e. maximum of 4 years for firstyear admitted students and a maximum of 3 years for secondyear admitted students, through lateral entry as a lump sum amount towards payment of college fees, purchase of computer, stationeries, books, equipment, software, etc.

Eligibility criteria include: The applicant must be a Girl Student.The applicant must be pursuing either the First year of the degree course OR the Second year of the Degree course through lateral entry.The annual income of the family (from all sources) must not be more than ₹ 8,00,000/per annum during the current financial year.All eligible girls (who submit online scholarship form) from the following 13 Union Territories and North Eastern States i.e. Andaman and Nicobar Islands (UT), Jammu and Kashmir (UT), Ladakh (UT), Dadra and Nagar Haveli &amp; Daman and Diu (UT), Lakshadweep (UT), Arunachal Pradesh, Assam, Manipur, Meghalaya, Mizoram, Nagaland, Sikkim &amp; Tripura will be given a scholarship by AICTE. The application process is as follows: &gt; New Registration:

Step 1: Visit the Registration page of the National Scholarships Portal.
Step 2: Guidelines for Registration will appear. Scroll to the bottom. Read carefully the undertaking. Accept the Terms. Click “Continue”.
Step 3: A Registration Form will appear. (The fields marked as  are compulsory). Fill in the details and click “Register”. Your Application ID and password will be displayed. The same will also be sent as an SMS to your registered mobile number.
&gt; Fresh Application:

Step 1: Visit the applicant Login page of the National Scholarships Portal Enter your Application ID and password.
Step 2: Type the Captcha and click “Login”.
Step 3: On the next screen, provide the OTP received on your registered mobile number. You will be directed to the Password Reset screen. Create a new password and confirm.
Step 4: Click “Submit”. You will be directed to the “Applicant’s Dashboard”.
Step 5: On the left pane, click “Application Form”. The fields marked as  are compulsory. Fill in the details and upload the documents. The verification of credentials of the students (caste, educational qualifications etc.) will be done through the DIGILOCKER facility of the MeitY, Govt. of India. 
Step 6: You can either click on “Save as Draft” to complete the application later. Else, click “Final Submit” to apply.
&gt; Track Payment Status:

The student can track their payment status from the template “Know Your Payment” in the Public Financial Management System (PFMS) Portal either by indicating their Aadhaar Number, Bank Account number or NSP Application ID.
&lt;br&gt; For more information, please refer to: Guidelines: https://scholarships.gov.in/public/schemeGuidelines/AICTE/AICTE_2010_G.pdf Official Portal: https://scholarships.gov.in/ Registration Link: https://scholarships.gov.in/registrations/#/ FAQs: https://www.aicte-india.org/downloads/FAQ_PRAGATI%20AND%20SAKSHAM.pdfF.pdf Tags associated with the scheme include: College Fee, Degree, Education, Female, Scholarship, Student.