The name of this welfare scheme is E.V.R. Maniammaiyar Ninaivu Marriage Assistance Scheme for Daughter’s of Poor Widows: Scheme-I. It is also known as EVRMNMASFDOPWSI. The &#39;E.V.R. Maniammaiyar Ninaivu Marriage Assistance Scheme for Daughters of Poor Widows: Scheme-I&#39; was launched by the Social Welfare and Women Empowerment Department, Government of Tamil Nadu. The aim is to help poor widow mothers who face financial hardship in conducting their daughter&#39;s marriage. The scheme provides financial assistance for the marriage of their daughters. The scheme targets beneficiaries such as Individual. It is specifically implemented in Tamil Nadu. Additionally, the nodal department is Department of Social Welfare and Women Empowerment.

The scheme provides the following benefits: Financial assistance of ₹25,000/given to the widow to meet the expenses incurred in the marriage of her daughter.
1 Sovereign (8gm) 22carat gold coin for making Thirumangalyam (Mangalsutra).

Mode of Disbursal: Through Electronic Clearing Service.
NOTE: The benefit can be given to the bride in case of the death of the widowed mother.

Eligibility criteria include: The applicant should be a Widow.
The applicant should be the mother of a girl child.
The annual income of the family should not exceed ₹72,000/.
The age of the widow&#39;s daughter should be above 18 years.
The allowance is granted for the marriage of one daughter only. The application process is as follows: Step 1: The applicant should gather copies of the necessary documents (selfattest if required) needed to apply for the concerned scheme.
Step 2: The applicant should visit the nearest Common Service Center (CSC) and complete the Biometric Verification Process.
Step 3: In the application form, fill in all the mandatory fields and upload copies of all the mandatory documents.
Step 4: Request a receipt or acknowledgement from the CSC. Ensure that the receipt contains essential details such as the date and time of submission, and a unique identification number (if applicable).
NOTE: The applications are processed within 15 days from the date of receipt.
> Deadline for Application

The application should be submitted 40 days before the marriage date. Applications received on or after the date of marriage will not be entertained.
NOTE: In exceptional circumstances, the application can be submitted one day before the marriage date. Step 1: The interested applicant should take print of the prescribed format of the application form.
Step 2: In the application form, fill in all the mandatory fields, paste the passportsized photograph (signed across, if required), and attach copies of all the mandatory documents (selfattest, if required).
Step 3: Submit the duly filled and signed application form along with the documents to the District Social Welfare Officer/ Extension Officer (Social Welfare).
Step 4: Request a receipt or acknowledgement from the concerned authority to whom the application has been submitted. Ensure that the receipt contains essential details such as the date and time of submission, and a unique identification number (if applicable).
> Deadline for Application

The application should be submitted 40 days before the marriage date. Applications received on or after the date of marriage will not be entertained.
NOTE: In exceptional circumstances, the application can be submitted one day before the marriage date. For more information, please refer to: Citizen's Charter: https://cms.tn.gov.in/sites/default/files/documents/swwe_e_cc_2022_23.pdf Application Form & Documents Required: https://cms.tn.gov.in/sites/default/files/forms/social_welfare_form12.pdf Tags associated with the scheme include: Daughter, Financial Assistance, Marriage, Widow.