The name of this welfare scheme is Medical Assistance (ANBOCWWB). It is also known as MA(ANBOCWWB). The scheme “Medical Assistance” was started by the Andaman &amp;amp; Nicobar Islands Building and Other Construction Workers Welfare Board (ANBOCWWB), Department of Labour, Employment &amp;amp; Training, Andaman &amp;amp; Nicobar Administration. Under this scheme, medical assistance shall be provided to the Building &amp;amp; Other Construction Workers, who are registered under the A&amp;amp;N Islands Building and Other Construction Workers Welfare Board, and his/her dependents&amp;#39; family members during hospitalization because of an accident or illness. The scheme targets beneficiaries such as Family, Individual. It is specifically implemented in Andaman and Nicobar Islands. The implementing agency is Andaman & Nicobar Islands Building And Other Construction Workers Welfare Board. Additionally, the nodal department is Labour, Employment & Training Department.

The scheme provides the following benefits: Medical assistance will be provided to the beneficiaries @ ₹200/per day for the first 5 days of hospitalization and ₹100 per day for the remaining days subject to a maximum of ₹5,000/.
   The beneficiary shall be entitled to ₹1,00,000/in the event of medical referred cases to the Mainland of the beneficiary or his/her dependents to the Mainland by the Govt. Medical Authorities for treatment.
   Subject to production of a referral letter from competent authority ₹1,000/for Beneficiary or their &amp;quot;Family&amp;quot; in case of emergency treatment in a hospital operating in Andaman &amp;amp; Nicobar Islands (once in a year).
   Subject to the production of referral remarks by Govt. Hospital/PHC in outer Islands ₹600/per day for the period of their stay in Port Blair subject to a maximum of ₹15,000/(Medical referral cases from outer Islands of Andaman &amp;amp; Nicobar Islands to Port Blair).

Eligibility criteria include: The beneficiary should be a resident of the Union territory of Andaman &amp;amp; Nicobar Islands.
   The beneficiary should be engaged in a building or other construction work.
   The beneficiary should be registered under the A&amp;amp;N Islands Building and Other Construction Workers Welfare Board.
   The beneficiary should have an active membership of the Board.
   To avail medical assistance under the scheme, either the beneficiary or their dependent should be hospitalized due to an accident or illness.

Note 01: The beneficiaries are required to produce a medical certificate
Note 02: The beneficiaries are required to produce a referral letter from the competent authority. The application process is as follows: &gt; Portal Registration Process:

Step 01: Visit online Portal: https://serviceonline.gov.in/login.do
Step 02: On the home page, click on ‘Register’ and fill in all the mandatory details.
Step 03: Click on the ‘Submit’ button and validate your Email ID &amp;amp; Mobile Number using OTP received.
Step 04: After successful validation, the applicant will be registered.
&gt; Registration Process of Construction Workers under A&amp;amp;N Islands Building &amp;amp; Other Construction Workers Welfare Board:

Step 01: Applicant can login through their email ID that is used while registering
Step 02: Enter Password &amp;amp; Captcha
Step 03: Click on ‘Login’
Step 04: After successful login, click on ‘Apply for Services’ and then ‘View all Available Services’
Step 05: Now, search for the “Registration of Construction Workers in AN BOCWWB” and then click to proceed registration process.
Step 06: Fill in all the mandatory details and upload all the relevant documents.
Step 07: Preview the form and click on ‘Submit’.
Step 08: After successful registration, the applicant will receive a registration ID. 
&gt; Application Process for Medical Financial Assistance:

Step 01: Now, to avail the benefits of the scheme, the applicants can login through their email ID that is used while registering
Step 02: Enter Password &amp;amp; Captcha
Step 03: Click on ‘Login’
Step 04: After successful login, click on ‘Apply for Services’ and then ‘View all Available Services’
Step 05: Now, search for the ‘Medical Financial Assistance’ and click on the scheme to proceed to fill out the application form.
Step 06: Fill in all the mandatory details and upload all the mandatory documents.
Step 07: Preview the application form and click on ‘Submit’.
&gt; Application Tracking:

Step 01: To track the application status, the applicant can visit the online Portal and login through their ‘User ID’ &amp;amp; ‘Password’.
Step 02: On the home page, click on “View Application Status’ and then click on ‘Track Application Status’.
Step 03: Enter the Application Reference Number and click on ‘Get Data’ to know the status of your application. The beneficiary may submit the application form himself/herself or through a contractor to the concerned Beneficiary Registration Officer along with all the relevant documents.

  Application Form for Registration as a Beneficiary  Application Form for Medical Assistance For more information, please refer to: Official Website: https://labour.and.nic.in/webPages/welfareboard.html Application Portal: https://serviceonline.gov.in/citizenRegistration.html Application Form For Medical Assistance: https://labour.and.nic.in/webPages/forms/med.pdf Application Form For Registration As A Beneficiary: https://labour.and.nic.in/webPages/forms/welfareboard.pdf Tags associated with the scheme include: Building Worker, Construction Worker, Hospital, Labour, Medical Assistance.