The name of this welfare scheme is Legal Aid To Scheduled Castes And Vimukat Jatis Scheme. It is also known as LASCVJS. The scheme “Legal Aid to Scheduled Castes and Vimukat Jatis Scheme” was launched by the Department of Welfare of Schedule Castes and Backward Classes, Haryana on 13th February 1961. The scheme is a 50:50 sharing basis scheme of the Government of India/State Government. Under the scheme, this department provides Legal Aid to the member of Scheduled Caste and Vimukat Jatis for defending and Instituting the following cases:

   1. Criminal cases instituted on Private complaints including security proceedings: under chapter VIII of the Codes of Criminal Procedure 1898. Instituted on such complaints.
   1. Cases of ejectment from land and other immovable property.
   1. Cases of recovery of rent by landlords.
   1. Cases pertaining to Khasra Girdawaris
   1. Cases pertaining to the deposit of rent with a Revenue Officer	when a landlord refuses to receive or grant a receipt for any rent payable in money when tendered to him or when there is a doubt as to the person entitled to receive rent payable in cash.
   1. Cases pertaining to correction of Khasra Girdawaries by Land Lords.
   1. Cases involving a claim to the right to the way of usage.
   1. Cases involving forcible removal of dung heaps.
   1. Cases involving claims for compensation for harassment caused on account of observance of untouchability denial of drinking water or denial of entry into Temple or hostel etc.
   1. Cases involving the share of Siri, Sanjhies, or Seepidars in the Agriculture produce.
   1. Cases involving reservation a claim for damages under the Law of Torts instituted by the husbands or parents or women of girls abducted or enticed away.
   1. Cases involving, reservation in services are either filed by the Scheduled castes/Vimukat Jatis/ Tapriwas Employees in the court.

Execution of agreement by a member of Scheduled Castes (&amp;amp; Vimukat Jatis) to whom legal aid is granted in all cases in which legal aid is granted to any person under these rules an agreement in writing shall be taken from such person that any sum recovered by such person from the other party as compensation, damages or costs shall be paid by him to Government reimbursement of the costs incurred by it and only the balance if any remaining after that shall be retained by such person. The scheme targets beneficiaries such as Individual. It is specifically implemented in Haryana. The implementing agency is Directorate Of Welfare Of Scheduled Caste & Backward Classes, Government Of Haryana. Additionally, the nodal department is Welfare of Scheduled Caste & Backward Classes Department.

The scheme provides the following benefits: An amount of ₹22000/is paid to the member of Scheduled Castes &amp;amp; Vimukat Jatis for defending his/her cases relating to the Land, Rent, etc. pending in the court.

Eligibility criteria include: The applicant should be a permanent resident of Haryana State.
The applicant should belong to the Scheduled Caste or Vimukat Jatis of Haryana State to avail of the benefits of the scheme. The application process is as follows: Registration Process:
Step 01: The applicant should visit the Official Portal AntyodayaSARAL Portal
Step 02: Click on “New User/Register Here” and fill in all the mandatory details i.e. Name, Email ID, Mobile Number &amp;amp; password. Click on ‘Submit’.
Step 03: Applicants will receive the login ID on their mobile number.
Application Process:
Step 01: Visit the Official Portal AntyodayaSARAL Portal
Step 02: The “Sign in here” option is available on the right side of the screen. Applicant needs to fill in their credentials and click on the ‘Login’ button.
Step 03: In the opened window, scroll over the “Apply for Services” and then click the “View All Available Services” link.
Step 04: On the opened page, type Legal Aid in the search box and then click on the “Legal Aid To Scheduled Castes And Vimukat Jatis” link to open the Haryana &amp;quot;Legal Aid To Scheduled Castes And Vimukat Jatis&amp;quot; Online Application Form.
Step 05: Fill in all the mandatory details in the online application form and submit the form. For more information, please refer to: Official Website: https://haryanascbc.gov.in/legal-aid-to-scheduled-castes-and-vimukat-jatis Notification: http://www.haryanascbc.gov.in/sites/default/files/2020-08/Notification%20Legal%20aid%20scheme.pdf Amendment: https://drive.google.com/file/d/1zepW8uyCmkgsKWS6mmMkvx3KYJniX6nV/view Tags associated with the scheme include: Court Cases, Financial Assistance, Legal Aid, Scheduled Castes, Vimukat Jatis.