The name of this welfare scheme is Investment Promotion Scheme (IPS) for Thrust Sectors: Scheme For Medical Equipment And Accessories, Medical Diagnostics And Ayush Products Manufacturing Units. It is also known as IPSFTSAME. The scheme “Scheme For Medical Equipment And Accessories, Medical Diagnostics And Ayush Products Manufacturing Units” is a sub scheme under the “Investment Promotion Scheme (IPS)” for Thrust Sector. It was launched on 3rd July, 2015 for a period of five years by the Dept. of Industries, U.T. Administration Of Dadra &amp;amp; Nagar Haveli And Daman &amp;amp; Diu. Now it has been extended further from 20th May, 2022 and shall be operative till 19th May, 2027.
&gt; Objective of the &amp;quot;Investment Promotion Scheme (IPS)”:

The scheme envisages to provide further fillip to the specialized Thrust Sectors such as Plastic Furniture, Steel Furniture, Brass Furniture, Metal Furniture, Cane Furniture, Wooden Furniture, Bamboo Furniture, Fibre Glass Furniture and Marble Furniture etc, therefore making the U.T. a Special Hub for the furniture sector: maximize Women participation in the business sector, reduce unemployment among the local residents and incentivize the industries to employ resident laborers etc.
&gt; Objective of the &amp;quot;Scheme For Medical Equipment And Accessories, Medical Diagnostics And Ayush Products Manufacturing Units&amp;quot; Sub-scheme:

Under this Scheme, Capital Investment Subsidy and Credit Linked Interest Subsidy will be provided to Medical Equipment and Accessories, Medical Diagnostics and AYUSH Products Manufacturing Units. The scheme targets beneficiaries such as Business Entity, Industries. It is specifically implemented in The Dadra And Nagar Haveli And Daman And Diu. Additionally, the nodal department is Industries Department, Dadra and Nagar Haveli.

The scheme provides the following benefits: Capital Investment Subsidy: 20% of Gross Fixed Capital Investment made will be reimbursed subject to maximum of ₹50,00,000/per unit.  Credit Linked Interest Subsidy: 60% per annum limited to maximum of ₹50,00,000/lakhs per annum for Five years OR for the period of repayment of loan whichever is earlier.

Eligibility criteria include: Should be a New Manufacturing/ Service units or Existing Manufacturing/ Service units which undertakes Expansion/ Diversification in MSME sector.
  The unit should have commenced the commercial production between 2022 to Unit should be located in the U.T. of Dadra and Nagar Haveli &amp;amp; Daman and Diu.
  Enterprise shall have to apply at online portal within one year from the date of first disbursement of loan or on or before the date of commencement of commercial production. The application process is as follows: &gt; Registration Process:

Step 1: Visit the Registration page of the Official Website.
Step 2: Provide the information in the respective input spaces and click on “Register”.
Step 3: Verify your email address using the verification link sent on your email (If Mail is Not Received Your Inbox. Please Check the Spam).
Step 4: Click the Link/URL in the received email or Paste Link/URL in browser&amp;#39;s address bar to complete your Account Verification.
Step 5: Now enter “111111” as OTP to verify your mobile number. Mobile Number and Pin Successfully will be sent to the registered Email Address.
Step 6: On successful registration the login credentials will be received in the registered email.
&gt; Application Process:

Step 1: Visit the user Login page of the Official Website.
Step 2: Enter registered Mobile Number along with PIN sent on your email then click “Log In”.
Step 3: On successful Log In, from the left side menu bar click on “Departments &amp;amp; Services” tab.
Step 4: Scroll down to “District Industries Centre DD &amp;amp; DNH” and click on the “Click Here” button to apply for “Investment Promotion Scheme : 2022 to 2027 (20 May 2022 to 19 May 2027)”. 
Step 5: “Common Application Form” will be open. Enter all the details in required input fields and upload all the mandatory documents.
Step 6: After successful entry of the information, verify all the details and click on the “Submit” button to complete the application process.
&gt; Helpdesk:

District Industries Centre,
Contact No.: 02602260871 / 02602260310
Email Address: dicdd@nic.in
For Technical Assistance on Single Window Portal (i.e. https://investdd.in)  Contact No. : 02602231885 / 2231886  EMail : ddegsdd@nic.in For more information, please refer to: Guidelines: https://swp.dddgov.in/assets/pdf/Notification_IPS_2022_DNH_DD.pdf FAQs: https://swp.dddgov.in/assets/pdf/FAQs_IPS_2022.pdf Tags associated with the scheme include: Ayush Products, Entrepreneurship, Incentives, IPS, Medical Accessories, Medical Diagnostics, Medical Equipment, Medical Manufacturing Units, Reimbursement, Subsidy, Thrust Sectors.