The name of this welfare scheme is Asangathita Shramik Sahayika Prakalpa. It is also known as Assp. he Government of Tripura has introduced a scheme called Asanghatita Sramik Sahayika Prakalpa (ASSP) to provide support to unorganized workers in the state. This scheme has been in operation since 2003 and has enrolled 1,09,534 workers from 19 unorganized sectors and 17 self-employment occupations until September 2019. The scheme is aimed at helping wage-employed and self-employed workers between the ages of 21 and 60 years who work in unorganized sectors and have an average family income of not more than Rs. 10,000 per month.


Under the ASSP scheme, each subscriber (worker) is required to contribute a sum of Rs. 50/- per month, and the State Government also contributes an equal matching amount of Rs. 50/- per month. The State Government/Bank pays interest on the balance at credit of a subscriber annually at the rate declared by the Government.


The total contribution, along with interest as declared from time to time, will be refunded to the workers on attaining the age of 60 years, or in the event of the account becoming inoperative due to death or permanent total disability due to accident or loss of two eyes or two limbs or loss of one eye or one limb in an accident or prolonged default in making contributions. 


In summary, the ASSP scheme provides a financial safety net for unorganized workers in Tripura. Eligible workers can enroll by paying a monthly contribution of Rs. 50, which is matched by the State Government. The contributions earn interest, and the total amount, including interest, is refunded to the workers when they reach the age of 60 years, or in the event of the account becoming inoperative due to certain circumstances. It is specifically implemented in Tripura. Additionally, the nodal department is Directorate Of Social Welfare & Social Education.

It falls under the categories: Social welfare & Empowerment.

Eligibility criteria include: All wageemployed and selfemployed workers between the age of 21 and 60 years in the unorganized sectors in the state of Tripura and having an average family income of not more than Rs. 10,000/per month, are eligible to be covered uråder the scheme. Initially, one person in a family will be eligible to get benefits under the scheme. The eligibility ceiling of family income may be refixed by the State Government from time to time.
The family for the purpose of the scheme will include the beneficiary, the spouse, the wholly dependent daughters, wholly dependent minor sons and wholly dependent parents.
The period for the calculation of average family income will be 12 months prior to the month in which the application is made. 
The major source of income of the beneficiary and the income of his family members taken together should be from their work as wageemployed or selfemployed workers in one or more employments or occupations (as notified from time to time under the scheme). Workers covered under the Employees&#39; Provident Fund and Miscellaneous Provisions Act, 1952 will not be eligible to be covered under the scheme. For more information, please refer to: Scheme Document: https://labour.tripura.gov.in/sites/default/files/Asangathita-Shramik-Sahayika-Prakalpa_0.pdf Scheme Guidelines: https://labour.tripura.gov.in/sites/default/files/ASSP_Scheme_guideline.pdf Indian Labour Year Book 2017: https://labourbureau.gov.in/assets/images/pdf/ILYB_2017.pdf Tags associated with the scheme include: Self Employment, Social Security, Unorganised Workers, Unorganized Sectors, Weaker Section.