The name of this welfare scheme is Chief Minister Housing Assistance Programme. It is also known as Cmhap. Housing is one of the basic human needs besides food, clothing and water. The improvement of the condition of the people also includes precision of decent housing. The Housing Department is intended to implement the Chief Minister’s Housing Assistance Program in two components in which housing roofing materials are given as grant in aid to the Economically Weaker Section (LWS) families to improve their existing house and tether is to provide a durable house to the how Income Group (LIG) families of the State, who are not in a position to build their own houses with their limited resources.


The scheme will be implemented in rural and urban areas of the State, allocation of funds among the districts will be on the basis of the State Budget Allocation of the year. The scheme targets beneficiaries such as All. It is specifically implemented in Meghalaya. Additionally, the nodal department is Housing Department.

It falls under the categories: Housing & Shelter.

Eligibility criteria include: 1)The eligible age of beneficiary is 18 years and above.
2) The beneficiary should be a bonafide resident of the State of Meghalaya.
3) A beneficiary should produce the EPIC or any other related document as proof of residence/address proof.
4) The beneficiary should not have any other person from the same family living under the same roof as the beneficiary under this scheme.
5) The beneficiary should own land for construction of the house in the location where the house is to be constructed.
6) In case of Credit Linked Subsidy, the beneficiary should not own a house anywhere in Meghalaya either in his/her own name or in the name of his wife/her husband or any dependent members (including unmarried children) of his/her family. Declaration/Undertaking to this effect shall be furnished by the beneficiary
7) The beneficiary should not have received   Loan or Advance   from any State Government/Housing Cooperative or any other Financing Institution in connection with the construction of a house either in his/her own name or in the name of his wife/her husband in the case of Credit Linked Subsidy.
8) The Income proof of the selected beneficiary lies at the discretion of the bank in the case of Credit Linked Subsidy.
9) On completion of the construction of the house, the beneficiary should not sublet or sell the house.
10) The target for selection of beneficiaries will be  Blockwise. For more information, please refer to: Guidelines: https://meghalaya.gov.in/schemes/content/37229 Guidelines: https://meghousing.gov.in/documents/CMHAP%20Scheme%20Guidelines.pdf