The name of this welfare scheme is Maintenance of Horti Hubs. It is also known as MHH. The scheme ‘Maintenance of Horti Hubs” was launched by the Department of Agriculture &amp;amp; Farmers’ Welfare, Government of Meghalaya to procure good quality disease-free and commercially accepted varieties of the identified flowers &amp;amp; multiply and to serve as a demonstration cum training ground for those who are interested in Floriculture and who intend to make this as their means of livelihood. The scheme targets beneficiaries such as Individual. It is specifically implemented in Meghalaya. The implementing agency is Department Of Agriculture & Farmers’ Welfare, Government Of Meghalaya. Additionally, the nodal department is Agriculture Department.

The scheme provides the following benefits: &gt; Pattern of Assistance:

Organizing demonstration cum training on hitech floriculture for farmers who are interested in floriculture, and renovation/repairing of old hubs.
&gt; Type of Assistance:

Demonstration and Training

Eligibility criteria include: The applicants should be a permanent resident of Meghalaya.
The applicant should be a bonafide farmer engaged in agriculture.
The applicant/farmer should own or lease land of at least 2 hectares or more. The application process is as follows: &gt; Application Process:

Step 01: The eligible bonafide farmer can apply/write an application on plain paper.
Step 02: Along with the application, attach copies of all the mandatory documents (selfattest, if required).
Step 03: Submit the duly filled and signed application along with the documents at your nearest office of the Horticulture Development Officer of a CD Block/Horticulture Circle.
&gt; Mode of Selection of Beneficiary(s):

The eligible bonafide farmers shall be selected on a first come first serve basis.
&gt; Whom to Contact: Below officials can be contacted for any concerns or queries:


  District Horticulture Officer  Horticulture Development Officer For more information, please refer to: Official Website: https://megagriculture.gov.in/PUBLIC/schemes_ShowSchemesH.aspx?schid=104 Tags associated with the scheme include: Agriculture, Farmer, Floriculture, Flower.