The name of this welfare scheme is Sathya Ammaiyar Ninaivu Government Children Homes. It is also known as SANGCH. The &quot;Sathya Ammaiyar Ninaivu Government Children Homes&quot; was launched by the Social Welfare and Nutritious Meal Programme Department, Government of Tamil Nadu. The scheme aims to provide education to destitute, deserted and abandoned children by giving free food, clothing, shelter and medical care. The scheme targets beneficiaries such as Individual. It is specifically implemented in Tamil Nadu. Additionally, the nodal department is Social Welfare and Nutritious Meal Programme Department.

The scheme provides the following benefits: Food, accommodation, education, uniform, free textbook and notebooks, medical facilities, chappals, and bedding.

Eligibility criteria include: The applicant should be destitute, deserted, and abandoned children.
The applicant&#39;s family income should not exceed ₹24,000/per annum.
The boys are eligible up to the 5th Standard.
The girl child&#39;s age should be 5 to18 years, in case girls without father and mother are admitted up to 21 years for their higher studies
The children without parents or with single parent, children of ailing parents and prisoners, children whose parents are alive but not able to be looked after by them since father/mother is severely differently abled and taken care of by mother/father are eligible. The application process is as follows: Step 1: The interested applicant should visit (during office hours) the District Social Welfare Officer/Extension Officer (SW)/Rural Welfare Officer (Women) and request a hard copy of the prescribed format of the application form from the staff exclusively entrusted to issue and collect filledin applications.
Step 2: In the application form, fill in all the mandatory fields, and attach copies of all the mandatory documents (selfattest, if required).
Step 3: Submit the duly filled and signed application form along with the documents to the District Social Welfare Officer/Extension Officer (SW)/Rural Welfare Officer (Women) 
Step 4: Request a receipt or acknowledgment from the District Social Welfare Officer/Extension Officer (SW)/Rural Welfare Officer (Women) to whom the application has been submitted. Ensure that the receipt contains essential details such as the date and time of submission, and a unique identification number (if applicable). For more information, please refer to: Citizen's Charter (2011): https://cms.tn.gov.in/sites/default/files/whatsnew/socialwelfare.pdf Tags associated with the scheme include: Children, Clothes, Food, Shelter, Social Welfare.