The name of this welfare scheme is Hospitalisation Relief Scheme. It is also known as HRS. The &quot;Hospitalisation Relief Scheme&quot; was launched by the Telangana Building &amp; Other Construction Workers Welfare Board, LET&amp;F (Labour) Department Telangana. The scheme aims to provide financial assistance to construction workers who suffer temporary disabilities due to accidents or diseases and are hospitalized for five or more days. The relief may be extended up to three months for severe or terminal conditions. The scheme targets beneficiaries such as Individual. It is specifically implemented in Telangana. Additionally, the nodal department is Labour, Employment Training and Factories Department.

The scheme provides the following benefits: The relief amount is ₹300/per day, subject to a maximum of ₹4,500/per month.

Eligibility criteria include: The worker must be a registered building and other construction worker with the Telangana Building and Other Construction Workers Welfare Board.
The worker should be hospitalized for at least five days due to an accident or disease. The application process is as follows: Step1: The interested applicant visits the official website and clicks on &quot;Downloads&quot; at the top of menu options.
Step2: Now click on the download button corresponding to the scheme name.
Step3: In the application form, fill in all the mandatory fields, and attach copies of all the mandatory documents (selfattest, if required).
Step4: Submit the duly filled and signed application form along with the documents to the concerned Assistant Labour Officer.
Step5: Request a receipt or acknowledgment from the concerned authority to whom the application has been submitted. Ensure that the receipt contains essential details such as the date and time of submission, and a unique identification number (if applicable). For more information, please refer to: Guidelines: https://tbocwwb.telangana.gov.in/newsite/pdf_files/2017LETF_MS15.pdf List Of Schemes: https://tbocwwb.telangana.gov.in/new_gos.html Tags associated with the scheme include: Accident, Construction Worker, Disability, Disease, Financial Assistance.