The name of this welfare scheme is Institutional Support for Development and Marketing of Tribal Products/Produce . It is also known as ISDMTP/P. The scheme “Institutional Support for Development and Marketing of Tribal Products/Produce” was introduced in 2014-15 by the Ministry of Tribal Affairs, Government of India. The scheme is implemented by revising and merging existing two separate schemes - &amp;quot;Market Development of Tribal Products/Produce&amp;quot; and &amp;quot;Grant-in-Aid to State Tribal Development Cooperative Corporation for Minor Forest Produce Operation&amp;quot;.
The Scope:

  - To give comprehensive support for people belonging to various tribes in the entire range of production, product development, reservation of traditional heritage, support to both forest and agricultural produce of tribal people, support to both forest and agriculture produce of tribal people, support to Institutions to carry the above activities, provision of better infrastructure, development of designs, dissemination of information about price and the agencies which are buying the products, support to Government agencies for sustainable marketing and thereby ensure a reasonable price regime.
  - Sharing of information with Gram Panchayat and Gram Sabha
  - Skill upgradation, development of utilitarian products for increase in value market. The scheme targets beneficiaries such as Registered Societies. The implementing agency is Ministry Of Tribal Affairs, Government Of India. Additionally, the nodal ministry is Ministry Of Tribal Affairs.

The scheme provides the following benefits: Activities to be undertaken under the Scheme: 
&gt; Market Intervention: The various aspects of marketing intervention which will be supported under this scheme are:fixation of equitable prices for existing products both manmade and natural;
   Actual procurement by State agencies as a safety net program and not monopoly/nationalization.
   Support during seasons of harvest when prices tend to get depressed;
   Sharing of information on prices so that people can make informed and conscious decisions and thereby markets become efficient;
   Selling of products by the State Agencies in urban areas and areas away from where they are produced to increase the demand for the products.
   Grading of products,
   Standardization,
   Source certification/Patent etc.
   Other promotional activities,

&gt; Training and Skill upgradation:


   Training for improved production and highergrade products
   Training related to manmade products to improve quality
   Diversion to highvalue products
   Development of improved quality and design.
   Linkage with other departments such as agriculture, horticulture, khadi and village industries, handlooms, and handicrafts, etc. for augmentation of training, skill upgradation, and technological support.

&gt; R&amp;amp;D/IPR Activity


   New product development through new usage
   Development of new products per se
   Development of new costeffective processes for product development
   Expansion of the market of the tribal products through R&amp;amp;D measures
   The IPR regime would be to document traditional knowledge and craft for seeking benefits of royalty and protection against piracy
   New technologies of harvesting, scientific harvesting practices, etc. are other measures of R&amp;amp;D
   Documentation and preservation of tangible and intangible heritage for promoting tourism etc.

&gt; Supply Chain Infrastructure Development:


   Setting up of efficient warehousing facilities, godowns, cold storages, etc. wherever necessary
   Establishing processing industries for value addition.
   Sharing of information on inputs with the producers/gatherers
   Develop productspecific efficient warehousing both at the IA level and also at the village level
   Training related to productspecific warehousing.

&gt; Trade Information System:


   Capturing information about different tribal products related to the sources, types, potential, production, collection, etc.
   Collection and dissemination of trade information about various aspects of tribal products/webenabled service SMS etc.

&gt; In addition to the above, the following activities:


   Creating brands or brands for tribal produce/products,
   Developing product designs keeping in view the export market and support for exports.

Eligibility criteria include: Support under the scheme will be made available to:

   Tribal Cooperative Marketing Development Federation (TRIFED),
   State Tribal Development Cooperative Corporations,
   State Forest Development Corporations (SDCs),
   Minor Forest produce (Trading and Development) Federations (MFPTDFs),
   Other institutions identified for product design, development, export processing, training of tribal producers, patenting and trademark, research, GI certification, and activities ancillary to the above. The application process is as follows: Step 01: The Implementing Agencies (IA) would be responsible for preparing the proposal and detailed action plan along with budgetary requirements and submitting it to the State Tribal/Welfare Department well in advance.

   A proposal from TRIFED would directly be submitted to the Ministry while for other IAs, the same has to reach the Ministry through their Nodal Ministry/Department.
   The proposal received from the implementing agencies should include the plan for the current financial year as well as a perspective plan with activities that may have to be completed in more than one financial year. As far as possible, the emphasis would be to establish systems, processes, and mechanisms that are transparent and sustainable.

Step 02: The implementing Agencies will send their proposals incorporating the above factors.
Step 03: The proposal shall be accompanied by utilization certificates as per provisions of GFR.
Note 01: No fund will be provided for the purpose for which the fund has already been given under some other scheme. For this purpose, the implementing Agencies will certify that it has not received funds from any other sources for the activities proposed under this scheme.
Note 02: State governments will also be responsible for the IA whose proposals are sponsored by them. For more information, please refer to: Official Website: https://tribal.nic.in/ Guidelines: https://tribal.nic.in/writereaddata/Schemes/3-1MJGuidelines.pdf Tags associated with the scheme include: Empowerment, Livelihood, Marketing, Scheduled Tribe, Tribal Products, TRIFED.