The name of this welfare scheme is Poompuhar State Award. It is also known as PSA. The &quot;Poompuhar State Award&quot; scheme was launched by the Department of Handlooms, Handicrafts, Textiles &amp; Khadi, Government of Tamil Nadu. The best artisans who have contributed to the development of the crafts of Tamil Nadu are selected and given a cash prize of ₹50,000/, a 4-gram gold medal, tamirapathiram and a certificate. The economically backward awardees are also eligible for a monthly pension of ₹3,500/- after completion of 60 years of age. The scheme targets beneficiaries such as Individual. It is specifically implemented in Tamil Nadu. Additionally, the nodal department is Handlooms, Handicrafts, Textiles and Khadi Department.

The scheme provides the following benefits: Cash Prize of ₹50,000/.
4gram Gold Medal.
Thamirapathiram.
Certificate.
Monthly Pension of ₹3,500/to the economically backward awardee.

Eligibility criteria include: The applicant should be an artisan.
The applicant should be a native of Tamil Nadu.
The applicant should be above 30 years of age. For monthly pension, the applicant should be 60 years or above in age.
The experience of the artisans and the service rendered by them in their profession will be taken into consideration during the passing (The artisans participating in the Award will be invited for process explanation and interview if required by the headquarters to test their skills). The application process is as follows: Step 1: The interested applicant should take print of the prescribed format of the application form.
Step 2: In the application form, fill in all the mandatory fields, paste the passportsized photograph (signed across, if required), and attach copies of all the mandatory documents (selfattest, if required).
Step 3: Submit the duly filled and signed application form along with the documents (during office hours, MondayFriday) to the Poombukar Head Office Tamil Nadu Handicrafts Development Corporation, 759, Anna Road, Chennai 600 Step 4: Request a receipt or acknowledgment from the concerned authority to whom the application has been submitted. Ensure that the receipt contains essential details such as the date and time of submission, and a unique identification number (if applicable).
NOTE 1: Advertisements are released during June month every year.
NOTE 2: No need to send award material with the application. For more information, please refer to: Citizen Charter (2021): https://cms.tn.gov.in/sites/default/files/documents/tnhdc_e_cc_2021_22.pdf Application Form: https://poompuhar.com/tnhdc/downloads/1696666049463145684.pdf Tags associated with the scheme include: Artisans, Award, Crafts, Financial Assistance.