The name of this welfare scheme is Multimedia Training - Tamil Nadu. It is also known as MTTN. The &#39;Multimedia Training by Welfare of Differently Abled Persons&#39; scheme was launched by the Department for the Welfare of Differently Abled Persons, Government of Tamil Nadu. Under this scheme, One month multimedia training is given to locomotor and hearing impaired persons at the National Institute of Film Development Corporation, Regional centre in Chennai. The scheme targets beneficiaries such as Individual. It is specifically implemented in Tamil Nadu. Additionally, the nodal department is Welfare of Differently Abled Persons Department.

The scheme provides the following benefits: Multimedia training is given to locomotor and hearingimpaired persons at the National Institute of Film Development Corporation, Regional centre in Chennai.

Eligibility criteria include: The applicant should be a hearing impaired and locomotor differently abled person. 
The applicant should have passed the 8th standard. The application process is as follows: Step 1: The interested applicant should visit (during office hours) the District Differently Abled Welfare Officer and request a hard copy of the prescribed format of the application form from the staff exclusively entrusted to issue and collect filledin applications.
Step 2: In the application form, fill in all the mandatory fields, and attach copies of all the mandatory documents (selfattest, if required).
Step 3: Submit the duly filled and signed application form along with the documents to the District Differently Abled Welfare Officer.
Step 4: Request a receipt or acknowledgment from the District Differently Abled Welfare Officer to whom the application has been submitted. Ensure that the receipt contains essential details such as the date and time of submission, and a unique identification number (if applicable). For more information, please refer to: Citizen's Charter (2022): https://cms.tn.gov.in/sites/default/files/documents/wda_e_cc_2022_23.pdf Tags associated with the scheme include: Locomotor, Multimedia, Person With Disability, Training.