The name of this welfare scheme is Basic Agriculture Training Centre Scheme. It is also known as BATCS. The “Basic Agriculture Training Centre Scheme” is a State Plan Scheme, which is implemented by the Department of Agriculture &amp;amp; Farmers’ Welfare, Government of Meghalaya. The objective of the scheme is to provide short-term vocational training for rural educated unemployed youths in agriculture and allied sectors to develop entrepreneurship skills and employment generation. The scheme targets beneficiaries such as Individual. It is specifically implemented in Meghalaya. The implementing agency is Department Of Agriculture & Farmers’ Welfare, Government Of Meghalaya. Additionally, the nodal department is Agriculture Department.

The scheme provides the following benefits: > Pattern of Assistance:


Free shortterm training to educated unemployed rural youths.

> Type of Assistance and Entitlement (If Any):


Training and capacity building.
Stipend @ ₹500/per participant per month.
Seed money @ ₹10,000/per participant.

Eligibility criteria include: The applicant should be a permanent resident of Meghalaya.
The applicant should be an unemployed rural youth.
The applicant should have passed Class X.
The applicant should be interested in starting farmbased activities.
The applicant should have owned or leased agricultural land. The application process is as follows: &gt; Application Process:

Step 01: The eligible Educated Rural Youths can apply/write an application on plain paper.
Step 02: Along with the application, attach copies of all the mandatory documents (selfattest, if required).
Step 03: Submit the duly filled and signed application along with the relevant documents at the office of the Principal, Basic Agricultural Training Centre (BATC).
&gt; Mode of Selection of Beneficiary(s):

The selection procedure is based on merit and on the condition that applicants own agricultural land on which they can start their farmbased activities. 
&gt; Whom to Contact:


   District Agriculture Officers of the concerned districts.
   SubDivisional Agricultural Officers of the concerned subdivisions.
   District Training Officers, Tura/Shillong.
   Agricultural Development Officers of the concerned Community and Rural Development Blocks. For more information, please refer to: Official Website: https://megagriculture.gov.in/PUBLIC/schemes_ShowSchemesA.aspx?schid=57 FAQs: https://megagriculture.gov.in/PUBLIC/dwd_docs/FAQONAGRICULTURESCHEMES.pdf Tags associated with the scheme include: Agriculture, Employment, Entrepreneurship Skills, Farmer, Training Centre, Unemployed Youth, Vocational Training.