The name of this welfare scheme is Grant of Stipend to the Differently Abled Trainees of the Vocational Training Institutes. It is also known as GSDATVTI. The scheme “Grant of Stipend to the Differently Abled Trainees of the Vocational Training Institutes&quot; was launched by the Department of Social Welfare, Government of Puducherry. Through this scheme, the differently abled persons undergoing any technical or professional training through Institutes are paid a fixed monthly stipend which will enable them to secure the training successfully in order to make their own earnings and become useful members of the society. The scheme targets beneficiaries such as Individual. It is specifically implemented in Puducherry. Additionally, the nodal department is Social Welfare Department, Puducherry.

The scheme provides the following benefits: ₹1,000/per month.

Eligibility criteria include: The applicant should be a Native/Resident of the Union Territory of Puducherry for at least 5 years.
The applicant should be differently abled.
The applicant should have undertaken a full time vocational training course in any vocational training centre/ workshop/ ITI/ any other centre run by the Central / State Government/ Local body or any voluntary organization or institution recognized by Central / State Government. The application process is as follows: Step 1: The interested applicant should visit (during office hours) the Office/ SubOffice of the Department of Social Welfare, and request the hard copy of the prescribed format of the application form from the staff exclusively entrusted to issue and collect filledin applications.
Step 2: In the application form, fill in all the mandatory fields, paste the passportsized photograph (signed across, if required), and attach copies of all the mandatory documents (selfattest, if required).
Step 3: Submit the duly filled and signed application form along with the documents to the authority given below Puducherry: The Deputy Director, Differently Abled Section, Directorate of Social Welfare. Karaikal: The Assistant Director, Social Welfare Department (Sub Office).Mahe / Yanam: The Welfare Officer (i\c), Social Welfare Department (Sub Office). 
Step 4: Request a receipt or acknowledgement from the concerned authority to whom the application has been submitted. Ensure that the receipt contains essential details such as the date and time of submission, and a unique identification number (if applicable). For more information, please refer to: Citizen's Charter: https://socwelfare.py.gov.in/sites/default/files/citizen-charter.pdf Contact Us: https://socwelfare.py.gov.in/contact-us Sub Offices: https://socwelfare.py.gov.in/sub--office-social-welfare-department Grievance Redressal: https://pgportal.gov.in/ Tags associated with the scheme include: Disability, ITI, Stipend, Trainee, Training.