The name of this welfare scheme is Mukhyamantri Tirth Yatra Yojana. It is also known as MTYY. The scheme “Mukhyamantri Tirth Yatra Yojana” is implemented by the Directorate of Information, Public Relations &amp;amp; Languages, Government of Haryana. Under this scheme, members of families with an annual income of less than ₹1.80 lakhs who are over 60 years of age will be taken for pilgrimages to Ayodhya, Varanasi, and other sacred places. The state government will bear all the expenses for their travel. The scheme targets beneficiaries such as Individual. It is specifically implemented in Haryana. The implementing agency is Directorate Of Information, Public Relations & Languages, Government Of Haryana. Additionally, the nodal department is Information, Public Relations and Languages Department.

The scheme provides the following benefits: Under this scheme, the facility is provided to senior citizens who wish to visit religious destinations such as Ayodhya, Varanasi, Nanded Sahib, Patna Sahib, Ajmer Sharif, and other such destinations in India.
   The Scheme also ensures that constraints of travel and local arrangements do not hinder senior citizens from undertaking the journey.
   The Government shall bear the cost of Rail travel (to and fro) in 3rd tier AC to destinations such as Ayodhya, Varanasi, Nanded Sahib, Patna Sahib, Ajmer Sharif, and other such destinations in India.
   The Government shall also bear the cost of transport from the place of residence to the Start of Train journey station at normative rates fixed by the Government. This cost shall be reimbursed to the applicant after the confirmation of completion of journey in the bank account of applicant linked with PPP ID.
   Facility of an attendant to accompany the applicant may be availed by the applicant of age more than 80 years on payment of 50% of railway ticket fare charges either through online payment or by deposit of cash at nearby Antyodaya Saral Kendra.

Eligibility criteria include: The applicant should be a bonafide resident of Haryana.
   The applicant should possess a Parivar Pehchan Patra (PPP ID).
   The applicant should have completed 60 years of age (as on 1st January of the year in which the application is made for availing the scheme). Relaxation in age may be given to the spouse accompanying the applicant.
   The applicant can avail the benefit of the scheme once every three years.
   Family Income of the applicant from all known sources should be upto ₹1,80,000/per annum as verified by PPP.
   The attendant should be a bonafide resident of Haryana with Parivar Pehchan Patra (PPP ID). The application process is as follows: > Registration Process on AntyodayaSARAL Portal:

Step 01: The eligible applicant may apply online through the Official PortalAntyodaya SARAL Portal. https://saralharyana.gov.in/
Step 02: If the applicant is not registered on the portal, he/she gets registered there. 
Step 03: For registration, click “New User” under ‘Sign In Here’ and fill in all the mandatory details i.e. Name, Email ID, Mobile Number, Password &amp;amp; State. Click on ‘Submit’.
Step 04: Verify your mobile number and email ID through the received OTP and complete the registration process.
&gt; Login to apply for the scheme:

Step 01: To avail the benefits of the scheme, visit the Official AntyodayaSARAL Portal and log in through the email ID used while registering.
Step 02: Enter Password &amp;amp; Captcha and click on ‘Login’.
Step 03: After successful login, click on ‘Apply for Services’ and then ‘View all Available Services’
Step 04: Now, you can search for the scheme and click on the scheme to go ahead and fill out the application form.
Step 05: Enter your Parivar Pehchan Patra numberFamily ID and click on “Click here to Fetch Family Data” which displays the family members registered under the given Family ID.
Step 06: Select the beneficiary/applicant name and enter the OTP that is being sent to the selected family member for verification. Click on “Click to Verify”
Step 07: Fill in all the mandatory details and upload all the mandatory documents.
Step 08: Preview the application form and click on ‘Submit’.
> Tracking of Application:

Applicants can track his/her application through the Official AntyodayaSARAL Portal by entering their Department Name, Scheme Name, and Application Reference ID. The applicants may submit their applications through Common Service Centres, Antodaya Kendra, Atal Sewa Kendra, edisha Centres or any other such centre as provided by the Government from time to time. For more information, please refer to: Scheme Details: https://kms.saralharyana.nic.in/ViewDoc?Id=yAmqaNH2bv3kXIxTg7L7cg%3d%3d Official Website: https://prharyana.gov.in/en/in-the-ongoing-efforts-of-the-haryana-government-for-the-upliftment-of-antyodaya-the-most Antyodaya-SARAL Portal: https://saralharyana.gov.in/ Tags associated with the scheme include: Pilgrim, Religious Destinations, Senior Citizen, Tirth Yatra.