The name of this welfare scheme is Maintenance Allowance To VJNT And SBC Students Studying In Professional Courses And Living In Hostel Attached To Professional Colleges. It is also known as PMAVSSSPC. The government of Maharashtra introduced the scheme to complete the education of V.J.N.T and S.B.C students who are students of professional courses such as Medical, Engineering, Animal Husbandry, etc.
Professional courses are divided into A, B, and C categories and accordingly, maintenance allowance is given to the students through the concerned Principal of the college. For 4 to 5 years course (Medical, Engineering, Agriculture, etc.) Rs. 700/- per month, for 2 to 3 years course (Engineering Dip., M.B.A, M.S.W, etc.) Rs. 500/- and for 2 years and lesser duration courses (B.Ed., D.Ed.) Rs. 500/- per month for 10 months as maintenance allowance in addition to other Government Scholarships. The scheme targets beneficiaries such as Individual. It is specifically implemented in Maharashtra. Additionally, the nodal department is Social Justice and Special Assistance Department.

The scheme provides the following benefits: Professional courses are divided into A, B, and C categories and accordingly, maintenance allowance is given to the students through the concerned Principal of the college.
For 4 to 5 years course (Medical, Engineering, Agriculture, etc.) Rs. 700/per month, for 2 to 3 years course (Engineering Dip., M.B.A, M.S.W, etc.) Rs. 500/and for 2 years and lesser duration courses (B.Ed., D.Ed.) Rs. 500/per month for 10 months as maintenance allowance in addition to other Government Scholarships.

Eligibility criteria include: Students should belong to VJNT or SBC category.
Students should be studying in professional courses such as Medical, Engineering, Animal Husbandry, etc.
Students should submit an Application form for admission in Govt. Hostel.
Students should have been admitted to the hostels attached to professional colleges or approved private hostels. The application process is as follows: Step 1: Visit the official website to register yourself by clicking on “New Applicant registration” and fill in all the mandatory details (Applicant’s Name, Username, Password, Email, and Mobile Number)
Step 2: Now, you may Login by filling Login details.
Step 3: Create your profile by filling in all your updated personal details like address, qualifications, etc.
Step 4: After filling in 100% of the profile information, you may apply for the eligible schemes.
After Scrutiny concerned college should forward his application to the concerned Asstt. Commissioner Social Welfare for sanction. For more information, please refer to: Guidelines: https://sjsa.maharashtra.gov.in/en/scheme-category/education-training?&Submit=Submit&page=1 Tags associated with the scheme include: Education, Maintenance, Professional Courses, Special Backward Classes, Vimukta Jati And Nomadic Tribes.