The name of this welfare scheme is Right To Information Fellowship. It is also known as RTIF. The Department of Personnel and Training (DOPT), Ministry of Personnel, Public Grievances and Pensions, Government of India, is the nodal Ministry for the Right to Information Act. The primary goal of the &quot;Right to Information Fellowship&quot; scheme is to contribute towards more accountable and transparent government and it has several components including programmes for awareness generation, training and e-governance initiatives for RTI for achieving the purpose. Under this scheme, DOPT proposes to offer 4(Four) short-term fellowships to researchers from the field of media / Civil Society professionals / RTI Trainers to conduct field-based research on themes relating to RTI. It is hoped that the research output will enhance the understanding of the status of the implementation of the act, including its successes, constraints in its implementation and how those are being / could be overcome and what more needs to be done to help achieve the objectives of the Act. The scheme targets beneficiaries such as Individual. Additionally, the nodal ministry is Ministry Of Personnel, Public Grievances And Pensions and the nodal department is Department of Personnel and Training.

The scheme provides the following benefits: > Stipend

A stipend of ₹ 50,000/per month for three months.
(subject to tax deduction at source)


> Additional Grant

₹ 50,000/for books, research material, travel, printing, production of creatives etc., sanctioned on the basis of the research proposal and released on production of actual bills.

Eligibility criteria include: The applicant should be a professional in the field of journalism (newspaper/ magazine/ radio/ TV), Civil Society and research and training in the field of RTI. 
The applicant should be between 25 and 40 years of age.
The applicant should have proven credentials in his / her professional area.
The applicant should have some prior experience of work relating to the Right to Information.
The applicant should have an aptitude for research. The application process is as follows: Five sets of the application with enclosures in the prescribed proforma may be sent by post to:
Under Secretary (IR), Department of Personnel and Training, Government of India, North Block, New Delhi 110 001 For more information, please refer to: Guidelines: https://rti.gov.in/rti_fellowship.pdf Tags associated with the scheme include: Communication, Internship, Journalism, RTI, Student.