The name of this welfare scheme is Devnarayan Gurukul Yojana. It is also known as DGY. The Devnarayan Gurukul Yojana aims to provide educational opportunities to students belonging to economically disadvantaged backgrounds in Rajasthan, specifically those studying in grades 6 to 12. This program targets students from very backward classes whose parents are not income taxpayers. 
The prestigious schools identified by the Directorate of Secondary Education are eligible for admission under this scheme. Each year, 500 students are granted admission through the Gurukul scheme, which supports cooperation in fulfilling this objective.
&lt;br&gt;


  - Very backward classes details


(i). Banjara, Baldiya, Labana 
(ii). Gadiya-Lohar, Gadolia 
(iii). Gujar, Gurjar 
(iv). Raika, Rabari (Debasi) 
(v). Gadaria (Gadri), Gayari. The scheme targets beneficiaries such as Individual. It is specifically implemented in Rajasthan. Additionally, the nodal department is Social Justice and Empowerment Department.

The scheme provides the following benefits: State&#39;s class 5 passed students are given admission to class 6 in private highly prestigious residential schools selected by the state government by selecting a prescribed number through the entrance test.

Eligibility criteria include: Student should be a native of Rajasthan state.
Students belong to the very backward classes 
(i). Banjara, Baldiya, Labana 
(ii). GadiyaLohar, Gadolia 
(iii). Gujar, Gurjar 
(iv). Raika, Rabari (Debasi) 
(v). Gadaria (Gadri), Gayari.
Selfdeclaration/certificate of parents not being income taxpayers.
It is necessary for the student to study regularly in a government/recognized nongovernment school. It is necessary for the student to pass in class 5 examination.
Only maximum of two children of one parent will be eligible for admission and benefits. The application process is as follows: Applicants have to visit the official portal. Students can process further action only with Student NIC ID.
Student can find their NIC ID here. Enter the NIC ID click on.
Fill out the application form.
Submit. For more information, please refer to: Guidelines: https://schemes.rajasthan.gov.in/scheme/detail/341 Apply Online: https://rajshaladarpan.nic.in/SD3/VPMS/ScholarshipApply.aspx Tags associated with the scheme include: Education, Pre Matric, Scholarship, Student.