The name of this welfare scheme is RKVY Soil Health and Fertility - Soil Health Card. It is also known as RKVYSHFSHC. SHC can be downloaded by the farmers from the SHC portal or through SMS link received on mobile. It will contain the status of his soil with respect to 12 parameters, namely N,P,K, S (Macro-nutrients); Zn, Fe, Cu, Mn, Bo (Micro - nutrients) ; and pH, EC, OC. Based on this, the SHC will also indicate fertilizer recommendations and soil amendment required for the farm.


ComponentRateSoil sampling, testing, and generation of SHCRs 300 per SHC (Rs 40 for soil collection + Rs 150 for testing (analysing soil samples + cost of chemical) + Rs. 110 for awareness

The key objectives of the scheme are as follows:
•	To promote soil test based nutrient management across the country
•	To issue soil health cards to all farmers across the country
•	Strengthen the functioning of soil testing laboratories and associated infrastructure 
•	Capacity building of district and state level staff for promotion of nutrient management practices
•	To diagnose soil fertility related constraints with standardized procedures for sampling uniformly across states; and analyse and design fertilizer recommendations. The scheme targets beneficiaries such as Individual. The implementing agency is State Government. Additionally, the nodal ministry is Ministry Of Agriculture and Farmers Welfare and the nodal department is Department of Agriculture and Cooperation.

The scheme provides the following benefits: The scheme targets to provide following benefits:
1)	Provide free / affordable access to soil test
2)	Provide farmers with timely and accurate soil analysis results
3)	Facilitate customized soil nutrient recommendations based on test results
4)	Enable farmers to optimize their fertiliser use and minimise input costs, and hence avoid underor overapplication of fertiliser

Eligibility criteria include: The scheme is applicable for all farmers in India. The application process is as follows: Step 01: Farmer approaches a District Agriculture Officer / Block Agriculture Officer for soil testing and generation of a SHC.


Step 02: The concerned officer shall initiate the process for the concerned farmer wherein they assess whether the applicant’s district / village falls under State Annual Action Plan for generation of SHC.


Step 03: Agent visits the farmer and collects farmer details, land details and geotags the land through mobile app and takes a sample of the soil for testing


Step 04: The soil is tested on set parameters and a Soil Health report is generated for the farmer’s land


Step 05: The report contains results as well as recommendations on suitable crops for the soil type, and the quantity and type of fertiliser to be used. For more information, please refer to: Guidelines: https://www.soilhealth.dac.gov.in/assets/Circular%20of%20implementation%20of%20Soil%20Health%20Card.pdf User Manual: https://www.soilhealth.dac.gov.in/assets/Circular%20of%20implementation%20of%20Soil%20Health%20Card.pdf Tags associated with the scheme include: Farmer, INM, RKVY, Soil Health, Soil Testing.