The name of this welfare scheme is Old Age Pension Scheme. It is also known as OAP. The Old Age Pension Scheme, implemented by the Department of Social Welfare of Uttarakhand, provides monthly pension to those above 60 years of age living below the poverty line. This financial assistance helps the elderly meet their basic needs and improve their quality of life. The scheme ensures social security for the most vulnerable senior citizens in the state The scheme targets beneficiaries such as Individual. It is specifically implemented in Uttarakhand. Additionally, the nodal department is Department Of Social Welfare.

The scheme provides the following benefits: > Monthly pension of ₹1,500/(one thousand five hundred).

Eligibility criteria include: The beneficiary should be 60 years of age or older.
The beneficiary should belong to a BPL family or have a monthly income of up to ₹4,000/.
If any son/grandson of the beneficiary is over 20 years of age but living below the poverty line, the beneficiary will not be deprived of the pension.

Note: Senior citizens of 60 years or older who are not members of a selected BPL family are given the full amount of the pension by the State Government. The application process is as follows: > Apply for Scheme: 

Step1: Visit the Official Website of the Department Of Social Welfare.
Step2: Click on “New Online Application” in the menu item for Online Application.
Step3: The registration form will be displayed.
Step4: Select the scheme in the registration form and fill in the required information.
Step5: After saving the application form, the applicant will receive the password of the applicant login by SMS at the address given by the applicant.
Step6: Click on the “Applicant Login” under the menu item to apply online using these login IDs and passwords.
Step7: Once you have successfully logged in , the information on your registered application form will be updated as needed.
Step8: Upload the documents required for the scheme (as indicated in the required document menu item) by clicking the Upload documents menu item (File type: pdf; file size: 1 MB).
Step9: After uploading all the required documents, the applicant will be able to take a printout of the application form by clicking on the Print Application Form menu item.
Step10: After uploading all the required documents, the applicant will be able to take a printout of the application form by clicking on the Print Application Form menu item.


> Track Application:

Step1: Visit the Official Website of the Department Of Social Welfare.
Step2: Click on Check your pension status in the menu item.
Step3: Enter your Enter application number/ Mobile number/ Aadhaar number
Step4: Then click on the “Search” button to see the application status.


Note: Once your application is under process or processed, you cannot update. For more information, please refer to: Guidelines: https://socialwelfare.uk.gov.in/files/PENSIONGO(21_04_22).pdf Application Form: https://socialwelfare.uk.gov.in/files/a-Oldage.pdf Website: https://socialwelfare.uk.gov.in/pages/display/94-old-age-pension Tags associated with the scheme include: Financial Assistance, Old Age, Pension Scheme, Welfare.