The name of this welfare scheme is Bhausaheb Fundkar Falbag Lagvad Scheme. It is also known as BHAUSAHEB FUNDKAR HORTICULTURE PLANTATAION SCHEME. The pattern of assistance under this scheme of total amount payable in three years.
 The subsidy amount will be directly credited to the Aadhaar link Bank Account every year. 
The beneficiary has to maintain the percentage survival of fruit plant shall be minimum 80% for first year and  90%  for the second year.
State Sponsored Bhausaheb Fundkar Falbag Lagvad Scheme was launched by Agriculture Department of Maharashtra from Kharif Season of the year 2018-19.
This scheme include the 16 perennial fruit crops like Mango, Cashew, Guava, Sapota, Custered Apple, Pomegranate, Paper Lemon, Coconut, Tamarind, Fig, Amla, Kokum, Jackfruit, Jamun, Orange, Mosambi. Farmer from Konkan division can avail benefit of 0.10 Hector to 10.00 Hector And rest Of Maharashtra 0.20 Ha. to 6.00 Ha. planting under the scheme. The scheme targets beneficiaries such as Individual. It is specifically implemented in Maharashtra. The implementing agency is Commissionerate Of Agriculture, Maharashtra State, Pune. Additionally, the nodal department is Agriculture Department.

The scheme provides the following benefits: Subsidy through DBT is given to farmer for plantation of 16 perennial fruit crops like Mango, Cashew, Guava, Sapota, Custered Apple, Pomegranate, Paper Lemon, Coconut, Tamarind, Fig, Amla, Kokum, Jackfruit, Jamun, Orange, Mosambi, for below mentioned activities :


Pit Diggsing
Planting grafts/seedling
Application of chemical and organic fertilizers.
Crop Protection
Gap filling

Eligibility criteria include: The beneficiary should be a permanent resident of Maharashtra State 
Farmer should have Aadhaar Card.
Farmer should have 7/12 certificate and 8 –A certificate. The application process is as follows: Application link:  https://mahadbt.maharashtra.gov.in/


Application Process:
Go to the Aaple Sarkar DBT Portal at https://mahadbt.maharashtra.gov.in/.
In that go to Farmer Scheme
Click on the “New Applicant Registration” button.
Enter your basic personal information, including your name, Aadhaar number, mobile number, and email address.
Create a username and password.
After completion of registration, login to your account and complete the form by entering Personal details,Address details and Land information details to complete profile 100%.
After completing profile, apply for the implements, details of implement and its specifications etc and pay the fees to complete application form. For more information, please refer to: Bhausaheb Fundkar Falbag Lagvad Scheme GR: https://gr.maharashtra.gov.in/Site/Upload/Government%20Resolutions/English/201807061207371701...pdf Tags associated with the scheme include: Direct Benefit Transfer, Farmer, General, Horticulture, Plantation.