The name of this welfare scheme is Marriage Assistance To Daughters Of Differently Abled Parents (Parinayam-I). It is also known as MADDAP(P-I). The scheme “Marriage Assistance to Daughters of Differently Abled Parents (Parinayam-I)” was launched by the Department of Social Justice, Government of Kerala. Under this scheme, the Kerala Government provides marriage assistance to the daughters of differently-abled parents. The financial aid of ₹30,000/- will be provided for the marriage of up to two daughters of differently abled parents. The scheme targets beneficiaries such as Family. It is specifically implemented in Kerala. The implementing agency is District Social Justice Office, Kerala. Additionally, the nodal department is Social Justice Department.

The scheme provides the following benefits: A onetime assistance of ₹30,000/is provided to differentlyabled parents for the marriage of their daughters.

Eligibility criteria include: The applicant should be a permanent resident of Kerala.
The differently abled parents for the marriage of their daughters should be eligible to apply under the scheme.
While submitting the application for marriage assistance the bride should have completed 18 years of age.
The combined annual family income should not exceed ₹1,00,000/.
Note 01: Applications for assistance can be submitted for the marriage of two daughters.
Note 02: The financial assistance for a second child&amp;#39;s marriage can be submitted only after 3 years after the initial grant of allowance.
Note 03: After receiving the financial aid as per these terms, if the marriage has to be separated for any reason and the girl has to marry a second time, then the financial aid can be given for the second marriage. In such cases, the annual income of the family should be calculated taking into account the compensation received from the exhusband.
Note 04: If the applicant with disabilities dies before the marriage of the daughters, the said financial assistance can be given to the elder member of the family or any other member of the family who is responsible for conducting the marriage.
Note 05: In case the applicant PWD dies after the marriage of his daughter but before receiving financial assistance, the senior member of the family or the married member or the individual can be given financial assistance on adequate security. The application process is as follows: Registration Process:
Step 01: To avail of the benefits of the scheme, the applicant needs to visit SUNEETHIOnline Service Application Portal
Step 02: On the home page, click on “One time Registration”
Step 03: Fill in the details like Name, Email ID &amp;amp; Mobile Number and click on ‘Register’.
Step 04: The applicant needs to enter the verification code received on the mobile number and click on ‘Verify’.
Step 05: Now, a form will open to create the new profile, fill in all the mandatory details and click on ‘Register’.
Login/Application Process: 
Step 01: Once the registration process is completed, the applicant should visit SUNEETHIOnline Service Application Portal and click on “Citizen Login”.
Step 02: Enter the user name i.e. Mobile Number and Password and click on “Sign in”.
Step 03: Now, the applicant needs to update all their details i.e. Personal Information, Contact Details, Identity Cards &amp;amp; Bank Details by clicking on the &amp;#39;Edit&amp;#39; button.
Step 04: Once the applicant updated their profile successfully, the schemes will appear on the left side of the screen.
Step 05: Select the scheme and click on the “Apply Now” button.
Step 06: Fill in all the mandatory details in the application form and click on the ‘Submit’ button.
Note: The application should be submitted at least one month before the date fixed for the marriage. But if the bride is from a Muslim community, the date of the marriage after the religious ceremony called Nikah should be considered for determining the period of application. Step 01: To avail of the benefits of the scheme, the applicants need to visit the official website of the Social Justice Department, Government of Kerala, and download the application form.
Step 02: The applicants need to fill out the application form completely.
Step 03: The duly filled application forms must be submitted to the concerned District Social Justice Office. 
Note: The application should be submitted at least one month before the date fixed for the marriage. But if the bride is from a Muslim community, the date of the marriage after the religious ceremony called Nikah should be considered for determining the period of application. For more information, please refer to: Official Website: http://sjd.kerala.gov.in/scheme-info.php?scheme_id=MTAzc1Y4dXFSI3Z5 Application Form: http://sjd.kerala.gov.in/DOCUMENTS/Downloadables/Application%20Forms/12358.pdf Order/Notice-2018: http://sjd.kerala.gov.in/DOCUMENTS/Order_new/GOs/24409.pdf Order/Notice-2019: http://sjd.kerala.gov.in/DOCUMENTS/Order_new/GOs/30778.pdf Tags associated with the scheme include: Daughters, Differently Abled Parents, Financial Assistance, Marriage.