The name of this welfare scheme is Children Education Assistance Fund. It is also known as CEAF. Detailed 
Under the CEAF scheme, eligible children are provided with financial assistance to cover the cost of tuition fees, textbooks, uniforms, and other educational expenses. The scheme is implemented by the Department of School Education in Nagaland.
The CEAF scheme is a significant step towards promoting education and improving literacy rates in Nagaland. It ensures that children from underprivileged backgrounds are not deprived of their right to education due to financial constraints.
&lt;br&gt;

This Stipend is State Sponsored scheme which was implemented by the state Govt. from 1992 and launched on children&amp;#39;s Day in 1990. This scholarship is given to the merit students after conducting the exam by the Directorate of School Education in two stages, the Elementary stage in class-5 and the secondary stage in class-9. Forms for this exam will available from the respective District Education Office or through VEC/WEC in May and June and the exam is conducted in September every year from the previous class Syllabus i.e for class 5 will be from the class 4 syllabus. The selected students from the Elementary stage will get their scholarship up to class-8 that may be renewed provided the scholar is successful and subject to his/her good progress record on regularity, good conduct and good academic result. The rate of scholarship is enhanced from time to time.  The selected students from secondary stages may be renewed up to Class-10, provided the scholar is successful and subject to his/her good progress record on (1) Regularity (ii) Good conduct and (iii) good academic result.
&lt;br&gt; The scheme targets beneficiaries such as Individual. It is specifically implemented in Nagaland. Additionally, the nodal department is School Education Department, Nagaland.

It falls under the categories: Education & Learning.

Eligibility criteria include: Eligibility

The scheme may not be applicable to students studying in private schools.
The scheme may not be applicable to students who are receiving financial assistance from other government schemes for education.
The scheme may not be applicable for students who have repeated classes or are overage for their class.
The scheme may not be applicable to students who have poor academic performance.
The scheme may not be applicable to students who are absent from school for a significant period of time For more information, please refer to: Guidelines: https://education.nagaland.gov.in/pre-matric-scholarship/ Tags associated with the scheme include: Assistance Fund, Children Education, Scholarship, Student Finance.