The name of this welfare scheme is Lokprasar Prakalpo Scheme. It is also known as LPS. The scheme “Lokprasar Prakalpo Scheme” was launched by the Department of Information &amp;amp; Cultural Affairs, Government of West Bengal in 2014 to revive the Folk and Tribal Culture in their respective genre across various zones and districts in the State. The scheme is primarily for the financially distressed rural Folk Artists as identified under the laid out procedure to enlist and ensure them with alternative economic support along with scope to further their domain folk culture hence preserving the cultural heritage of different parts of Bengal. The main objectives of the scheme are –
1.	To bestow dignity on folk artists by issuing them identity cards
2.	To uphold the traditional folk forms of Bengal
3.	To revive nearly extinct folk forms of art and culture
4.	To uplift the socio-economic conditions of artists associated with folk culture The scheme targets beneficiaries such as Artists. It is specifically implemented in West Bengal. The implementing agency is Information And Cultural Affairs Department, West Bengal. Additionally, the nodal department is Information and Cultural Affairs Department.

The scheme provides the following benefits: Issuing identity cards to each folk artiste.
Under the scheme, the veteran and distressed folkartistes who are above 60 years of age will get a monthly pension of ₹1000/.
The enlisted folk artists under the age of 60 years, who are engaged in publicity campaigns in different departments, have been receiving ₹1000/per month as a retainer fee.
The state government will arrange the minimum income for folk artists by engaging them in the public campaign programme on development projects such as Kannyasree, Yubasree, Sikshasree, etc. and programmes like Nirmal Bangla, Sarbo Sikhsa Avijan, etc.
Performance Fees: Performancebased fees @₹1000/per head per day as and when engaged to perform their own genre mostly at any Government programme like fair/festival/Krishi Mela/Sabala Mela, etc.

Eligibility criteria include: The applicant may have a lineage or belong to a family practicing a given folk form or may belong to a tribal cultural/dance team or a folkbased instrumentalist as recognized by the Folk &amp;amp; Tribal Cultural Centre.
The applicant must be between 18 to 60 years.
The applicants above 60 years will be eligible for pension. 
The applicant must be a resident of West Bengal. The application process is as follows: Step 01: For taking benefit of this scheme, the applicant needs to contact their district Information &amp; Cultural Affairs Department. 
Step 02: The Department of Information &amp; Cultural Affairs publishes notifications in various vernacular newspapers from time to time in order to impanel the Folk artists through auditions in different phases held at the district.
Step 03: Interested and eligible Folk artists may apply in the prescribed format for the necessary selection procedure.
Step 04: After successful verification, the applicant can avail the benefit of the scheme. For more information, please refer to: Official Website: https://wb.gov.in/government-schemes-details-lokprasar.aspx Website: https://howrah.gov.in/information-cultural-affairs/ Tags associated with the scheme include: Artists, Financial Assistance, Folk, Pension, Performance Fee, Tribal Culture.