The name of this welfare scheme is Laadli Laxmi Scheme. It is also known as LLS-G. Laadli Laxmi Scheme was launched on 6th July 2012 as one of the flagship programmes of the Department of Women &amp; Child Development, Government of Goa with the intention to address the undesirable tendency of female foeticides and with an aim towards erasing the general perception that the birth of a girl in the family is the burden on her parents/guardian during her marriage. The objective of the scheme is to financially empower the girl child to meet educational and other expenses on becoming a major of age and to improve the female sex ratio in the State. The scheme targets beneficiaries such as Individual. It is specifically implemented in Goa. Additionally, the nodal department is Women and Child Development Department.

The scheme provides the following benefits: > For Unmarried Beneficiaries (beneficiaries who attain the age of majority i.e. 18 years on or after 01042012)


Financial Assistance of ₹ 1,00,000, by means of a bank fixed deposit, jointly in the name of the Director (DoWCD) and the applicant.
The fixed deposit shall be renewed annually automatically on maturity, along with the amount of interest accrued, till the date of claim by the applicant as per the scheme or until the age of 45 years whichever is earlier.



> For Married Beneficiaries ( beneficiaries who have already attained the age of 18 years before 01042012 and are in the age group of 19 to 45 years prospectively from 1st April, 2016)


Financial Assistance of ₹ 1,00,, by means of cash payment.

Eligibility criteria include: The applicant should be a Girl.
The applicant should be born in the State of Goa OR should be a resident of Goa for the last fifteen years.
In case, the applicant is a resident of Goa for the last fifteen years, she should have been educated in Goa for a minimum period of 7 years (continuous).
The parental income of the applicant does not exceed ₹ 3,00,000 per annum.
The applicant should qualify for ANY ONE of the following three criteria:

             a)   At least one of the parents of the applicant is born in Goa and is also a resident of Goa for the last fifteen years.
             b)   One of the parents of the applicant is residing in Goa for the last twentyfive years.


NOTE: In case the applicant is an affected person of Tillari Irrigation Project (a joint venture of the Government of Goa and the government of Maharashtra) and was rehabilitated in the State of Goa, her application shall be sanctioned if she produces a certificate issued by the Collector, North Goa District relaxing the condition of 10/15 years domicile in the State of Goa for various purposes for her family. The application process is as follows: Step 1: In the application form, fill in all the mandatory fields, paste the passportsized photograph (signed across), and attach copies of all the mandatory documents (selfattest if required).
Step 2:The applicant should send the application to:
Director, Directorate of Women And Child Development, PanajiGoa, 2nd floor, Old Education Building, 18th June Road, Altinho, Panaji, Goa 403 NOTE: The application shall be submitted within one year, from the date of attaining the age of 18 years or from the date of Civil Marriage Registration. All applications received beyond the specified period of one year shall be rejected. For more information, please refer to: Guidelines: https://www.goa.gov.in/wp-content/uploads/2021/01/Laadli-Laxmi-Scheme-Griha-Aadhar-Schme-Amendment-Notification.pdf Tags associated with the scheme include: Financial Assistance, Girl, Marriage, Social Welfare.