The name of this welfare scheme is Scheme of Financial Assistance for Cultural Organization for Holding Conference, Seminar, Symposium, Exhibition, Festival, Competition etc.. It is also known as SFACOHCSSEFC. The &quot;Scheme of Financial Assistance for Cultural Organization for Holding Conference, Seminar, Symposium, Exhibition, Festival, Competition etc.&quot; was launched by the Arts and Culture Department, Puducherry. The scheme aims to provide a annual grant to the institution/organization organizing a seminar, symposium. The applications are accepted offline. The scheme targets beneficiaries such as Business Entity, University / Institution. It is specifically implemented in Puducherry. Additionally, the nodal department is Arts and Culture Department, Puducherry.

The scheme provides the following benefits: Financial Assistance of 10,000/annually.

Eligibility criteria include: The institution should have a standing of at least 2 years in the field.
Institutions/organizations are required to obtain prior permission/approval of the Government before inviting foreign delegates to seminars and symposium etc. The application process is as follows: Step 1: The interested applicant should visit (during office hours) the Department of Art and Culture and request the hard copy of the prescribed format of the application form from the staff exclusively entrusted to issue and collect filledin applications.
OR
The interested applicant downloads the application form.
Step 2: In the application form, fill in all the mandatory fields, paste the passportsized photograph (signed across, if required), and attach copies of all the mandatory documents (selfattest, if required).
Step 3: Submit the duly filled and signed application form along with the documents to the superintendent, Department of Art and Culture,1, Romain Rolland Street, Puducherry.
Step 4: Request a receipt or acknowledgment from the superintendent to whom the application has been submitted. Ensure that the receipt contains essential details such as the date and time of submission, and a unique identification number (if applicable). For more information, please refer to: Citizens Charter: https://art.py.gov.in//sites/default/files/ecit1.pdf Official Website: https://art.py.gov.in/ Application Form: https://art.py.gov.in/sites/default/files/application-11.pdf Tags associated with the scheme include: Culture, Financial Assistance, Institution, Organization.