The name of this welfare scheme is Regional Centre for Training and Production of Mushroom. It is also known as RCTPM. The scheme “Regional Centre for Training and Production of Mushroom” was launched by the Department of Agriculture &amp;amp; Farmers’ Welfare, Government of Meghalaya to train farmers in the method of mushroom cultivation and to supply quality spawn and pasteurised compost to farmers. The scheme targets beneficiaries such as Individual. It is specifically implemented in Meghalaya. The implementing agency is Department Of Agriculture & Farmers’ Welfare, Government Of Meghalaya. Additionally, the nodal department is Agriculture Department.

The scheme provides the following benefits: > Pattern of Assistance:

Supply of spawns at 50% subsidy and compost at 50% subsidy.
> Type of Assistance and Entitlement (If any):

Sl. No.EntitlementOwantum of Assistance1Sale of Button, Oyster spawns, and compost to Mushroom growers at Mushroom Development Centre.50% subsidy sale to the growers.2Construction of compost shed under Assistant Director of Horticulture, Mushroom Development Centre, Upper Shillong.50% assistance3Financial assistance to Mushroom growers @ ₹22,000/per unit under District Horticulture Officer, West Garo Hills.50% assistance

Eligibility criteria include: The applicant/farmer should be a permanent resident of Meghalaya.
   The applicant should be a bonafide farmer engaged in agriculture, possessing own or leased land of at least 2 (hectares) or more.

Note: The applicant farmer can avail of the benefits of the scheme on a first come first serve basis. The application process is as follows: &gt; Application Process:

Step 01: The eligible bonafide farmer can apply/write an application on plain paper.
Step 02: Along with the application, attach copies of all the mandatory documents (selfattest, if required).
Step 03: Submit the duly filled and signed application along with the required documents at the nearest office of the Horticulture Development Officer of a Community Development Block/Horticulture Circle/District Horticulture Officer.
&gt; Mode of Selection of Beneficiary(s):

Bonafide and progressive farmers on a first come first serve basis.
&gt; Whom to Contact:

District Horticulture Officer
Assistant Director of Horticulture (Mushroom) Upper Shillong For more information, please refer to: Official Website: https://megagriculture.gov.in/PUBLIC/schemes_ShowSchemesH.aspx?schid=107 Tags associated with the scheme include: Agriculture, Farmer, Financial Assistance, Mushroom Production, Training.