The name of this welfare scheme is Nirman Shramik Avm Unke Aashrit Bacchon Dwara Bhartiya Rajasthan Prashasnik Seva Hetu Aayojit Pratibhabhik Yojana. It is also known as NSUAB. The scheme &quot;Nirman Shramik Avm Unke Aashrit Bacchon Dwara Bhartiya Rajasthan Prashasnik Seva Hetu Aayojit Pratibhabhik Yojana&quot; initiated by the Labor Department of Rajasthan aims to foster the integration of children of registered beneficiaries engaged in construction and other related works into the mainstream of development. Through this program, the government seeks to provide opportunities for the children of laborers and workers involved in construction activities to access education and skill development, thereby enhancing their prospects for a better future.


By facilitating the participation of these children in educational and skill-building programs, the scheme endeavors to break the cycle of intergenerational poverty prevalent among families engaged in manual labor. By empowering the youth with education and skills, the government aims to equip them with the necessary tools to secure gainful employment opportunities and contribute meaningfully to the socio-economic development of Rajasthan. Through this holistic approach, the scheme not only addresses immediate educational needs but also endeavors to create a pathway for long-term socio-economic upliftment and empowerment of families involved in the construction sector in the state. The scheme targets beneficiaries such as Individual. It is specifically implemented in Rajasthan. Additionally, the nodal department is Labour Department.

The scheme provides the following benefits: On passing the preliminary examination of Indian Administrative Service – ₹1,00,000/On passing the preliminary examination of Rajasthan Administrative Service – ₹50,000/

Eligibility criteria include: Applicant should be registered construction workers who are continuously depositing contributions
The annual income of the applicant parents from all sources should not exceed ₹2,50,000/Applicant who are already working in government services will not be given benefits.
The applicant must have passed the following preliminary competitive examination:Indian Administrative Service.
   Rajasthan Administrative Service.

No benefit will be payable under this scheme for administrative examination of states other than Rajasthan state.
Incentive amount will be given maximum once only for Indian Administrative Service and Rajasthan Administrative Service, that is, if incentive amount has been given for competitive examination in the past, then in the coming year, incentive amount will be given again for passing the preliminary examination of the same competitive examination. But incentive amount will not be payable.
If any fact is found to be false in the information given by the beneficiary in the assistance application submitted under the scheme, then it will be the responsibility of the concerned beneficiary to deposit the entire amount of assistance accepted under the scheme in one lump sum along with interest. The application process is as follows: > Registration

Step1: Applicant have to visit the official portal. 
Step2: Click on the option “Register”.
Step3: Then you will be redirected to the SSO registration page. The registration page will appear with the following options.


  Citizen


Step4: Choose the either one option from  the Jan Aadhaar Or Google to process further.


  Jan Aadhaar : Enter the Jan Aadhaar number, click on the ‘Next’ button,


      Select your name, the name of the head of the family and all the other members and 
      Click on the ‘Send OTP’ button. Enter the ‘OTP’ and 
      Click on the ‘Verify OTP’ button to Complete the registration. 






  Google : Enter the Gmail ID, click on the ‘Next’ button, 


      Enter the password.
      A new link appear on screen, now click on the new SSO link.
      SSO id will appear on the screen, now create the password.
      Enter Mobile number, click on registration.




Step5: Submit.
 
> Apply 

Step1: Applicant have to visit the official portal. 
Step2: After login, dashboard will open.
Step3: Click on “LDMS” option.
Step4: In LDMS, select &quot;Welfare Schemes&quot; from the side menu and select BOCW Welfare Board. 
Step5: Now click on &quot;Apply for Scheme&quot; on screen. 
Step6: In this new page, will get a list of names of all the schemes of Rajasthan Shramik Card, out of which click on the name of &quot;Yojana&quot;
Step7: Fill out the all relevant detail. 
Step8: Submit. For more information, please refer to: Guidelines: https://jankalyanfile.rajasthan.gov.in//Content/UploadFolder/Scheme/LAB_/IASRAS/DOC_817_1417a81d-5732-4847-a595-6929e91e3e68.pdf Details: https://schemes.rajasthan.gov.in/scheme/detail/817 Registration: https://sso.rajasthan.gov.in/register Apply: https://sso.rajasthan.gov.in/signin Tags associated with the scheme include: Child Education, Construction Worker, Higher Education.