The name of this welfare scheme is Total Health Check-up Scheme (GBOCWWB). It is also known as THCS(GBOCWWB). The “Total Health Check-up Scheme” is implemented by the Gujarat Building and Other Construction Worker’s Welfare Board (GBOCWWB), Labour, Skill Development &amp;amp; Employment Department, Government of Gujarat. This scheme facilitates a complete physical examination of the construction workers, which can diagnose potential illnesses and early treatment can prevent major illnesses. Hence, major illness can be avoided and the construction worker can lead a healthy life. The scheme targets beneficiaries such as Individual. It is specifically implemented in Gujarat. The implementing agency is Gujarat Building And Other Construction Worker’s Welfare Board. Additionally, the nodal department is Labour and Employment Department.

The scheme provides the following benefits: Under the scheme, preventive health checkups for workers, with a view to initiate proper treatment/health restoration measures.
   This health checkup will be recommended regularly to every individual for diagnosis of any disease at its initial stage.
   This health checkup includes routine doctors, pathology, radiology and cardiology checkups. In which a limit of ₹1950/per beneficiary will be paid to the empanelled hospital/institution. 

&gt; Terms and Conditions:


   The benefits of this scheme will be given to the state employees. In which per beneficiary has to spend within the limit of ₹1950/.
   Ayushman Bharat Yojana empanelled hospitals from which workers can go for checkups and treatment in districtwise hospitals decided by the Government/Board through MOU.

&gt; Where to Benefit from:


  Actions are taken by empanelled institutions through camps in Kadianaka/construction sites/colonies.

Eligibility criteria include: The construction workers who are registered with the Gujarat Building and Other Construction Worker’s Welfare Board will be eligible to get the benefit of this scheme. The application process is as follows: &gt; Application Process for ‘ENirman Card’ under the GBOCWWB:

Step 01: The applicant may visit the eNirman Portal: https://enirmanbocw.gujarat.gov.in/
Step 02: On the home page, under the tab ‘Login to Portal’, click on ‘Please Register Here’.
Step 03: Enter all the mandatory information and then click on ‘Register’.
Step 04: After successful registration, the applicants can login through their User ID and Password.
Step 05: Now, update your profile by entering all the necessary details as required and click on ‘Update’.
Step 06: Select the ‘Construction Works Form’ and fill out all the mandatory information in the form.
Step 07: Upload all the relevant documents, agree with the terms &amp;amp; conditions and submit the form.
Step 08: Once the application has been submitted, an application Number is generated which can be kept for future reference.
&gt; Process to track Application Status:

Step 01: The applicant may visit the eNirman Portal: https://enirmanbocw.gujarat.gov.in/
Step 02: On the home page, click on ‘View Citizen Application Status’.
Step 03: Enter the Application Number and Date of Birth.
Step 04: Now click on ‘View Status’.
&gt; Application Process for Scheme Benefit:

Step 01: The applicant may visit the Sanman Portal: https://sanman.gujarat.gov.in/
Step 02: On the home page, under the tab ‘Citizen Login’, click on ‘Please Register Here’.
Step 03: Enter your Aadhaar Card Number, select user type, and then enter your ENirman Card Number.
Step 04: Now, click on ‘Fetch’ &amp;amp; submit the details.
Step 05: After successful registration, the applicants can login through their User ID and Password.
Step 06: Now, select the scheme and read the instructions carefully for the selected scheme.
Step 07: Fill out the application form and upload all the relevant documents.
Step 08: Agree with the Rules &amp;amp; Regulations and submit the application form. A confirmation email with the application Number will be sent on the registered email ID.
&gt; Post Application Process:

Step 01: After filling out the form, the construction worker will be allotted time for the test by logging on to Sanman portal by North Star Institute.
Step 02: After that, the medical officer of the North Star Institute will check the list of health checkup tests and upload it on the report portal, and apply for the monthly joint bill through North Star at the Head Office, the bill will go to the Government Labour Officer of the Head Office.
Step 03: The Government Labour Officer of the Head Office will verify the bill and send it to the Hon&amp;#39;ble Member Secretary for approval.
Step 04: After checking the bill by the accounting officer, North Star Diagnostic Pvt. Ltd. Ahmedabad will pay the bill online into their account For more information, please refer to: Official Website: https://sanman.gujarat.gov.in/Home/BOCWScheme# Guidelines: https://bocwwb.gujarat.gov.in/Portal/Document/10_382_1_Total_Health_Check-_up_scheme_.pdf Sanman Portal: https://sanman.gujarat.gov.in/# E-Nirman Portal: https://enirmanbocw.gujarat.gov.in/Index.aspx Tags associated with the scheme include: Building Worker, Construction Worker, Health Check-up, Illnesses, Labour.