The name of this welfare scheme is Internship Programme At Serious Fraud Investigation Office. It is also known as SFIO. Serious Fraud Investigation Office (SFIO) is a multi-disciplinary organization under the Ministry of Corporate Affairs has an Internship Programme which was started in 2017 to provide a platform for interaction of talented and young scholars and researchers from reputed academic institutions who are pursuing Post-Graduation/Research Program in Economics/ Commerce/Law/Management and Computer Forensics as well as professional courses with Institute of Chartered Accountants of India, Institute of Cost Accountants of India (CMA) and Institute of Company Secretaries of India with officers of SFIO, including its Regional Offices. The programme also provides an opportunity to interns to not only familiarize themselves with the working of the Government but also offers a chance to gain hands-on experience in specialized skills in their area of study as well as working in team.
&gt; Duration

The internship will be for a minimum period of one month and a maximum period of two months.

&gt; Declaration of Secrecy

Interns shall be required to furnish a Declaration of Secrecy prior to the commencement of the internship.
NOTE: The internship will neither be a job nor an assurance of a job in the Serious Fraud Investigation Office. The scheme targets beneficiaries such as Individual. The implementing agency is Serious Fraud Investigation Office. Additionally, the nodal ministry is Ministry of Corporate Affairs.

The scheme provides the following benefits: &gt; Stipend

The interns will be paid a stipend of ₹7,000/per month for the period of the internship.
&gt; Certificate of Internship

Certificates will be awarded to interns upon satisfactory completion of their internship and on submission of their endofassignment Report, and its evaluation by the concerned official of SFIO.

Eligibility criteria include: The applicant should be an Indian National.
The applicant should be ANY ONE of the following : 

  Students in Post Graduate Courses — MBA (Finance), Law Students in 4th/5th Year of a fiveyear stream with consistent and excellent academic records/fresh graduates with excellent academic records possessing a firstclass graduation degree; 
  Students pursuing postgraduation with high secondclass graduation degree (with at least 55% marks/students pursuing Masters/Research Courses in Economics/Finance/Management/Law at the National School of Economics/Law / Computer Forensics from recognized universities in India and Abroad.
  Students pursuing final year or the equivalent of ICAI, ICAI(CMA), ICSI/Central Universities/AICTE recognized financial/Economic Institutions/recognized National Management Institutes/Foreign Universities and Institutions of Excellence.

In the case of Graduate Applicants, the applicant should have secured First Class Degree in Graduation. The application process is as follows: The institutions are required to send the duly filled and signed application forms, along with the required documents (selfattested) received from the interested students to kundanlal@sfio.nic.in.
The institutions must also intimate the convenient time of the year for the students to join the internship program and the permissible duration as per the academic curriculum. 
A final selection will be made by the competent authority depending on the suitability of the students and the availability of the positions.
The application form may be downloaded from the official website of SFIO i.e https://sfio.gov.in/en/notice/internshipprogrammeinsfio3/. (Refer page no.3). For more information, please refer to: Guidelines: https://cdnbbsr.s3waas.gov.in/s3d51b416788b6ee70eb0c381c06efc9f1/uploads/2023/06/2023061383.pdf Tags associated with the scheme include: Corporate, Fraud, Internship, Investigation, Student.