The name of this welfare scheme is Scheme of Extending Grants for the Publication of Rare Books on Arts. It is also known as SOEGFTPORBOA. The &quot;Scheme for Giving Awards to Traditional Artists&quot; was launched by the Art and Culture Department, Government of Tamil Nadu. Under this scheme, the grant is sanctioned to the writer for the publication of books that are considered rare for the development of arts. 60% of the total cost of the printing charges of 1000 copies or ₹15,000/- whichever is less is sanctioned as a grant. he applications are accepted offline in the prescribed form available at the Manram. The scheme targets beneficiaries such as Individual. It is specifically implemented in Tamil Nadu. The implementing agency is Tamil Nadu Eyal Isai Nataka Mandram. Additionally, the nodal department is Art and Culture Department.

The scheme provides the following benefits: 60% of the total cost of the printing charges of 1000 copies or ₹15,000/whichever is less is sanctioned as a grant.
> Number of Installments

The grant amount is disbursed in two instalments: 

First Installment: 50% upon selection of the book by the Expert Committee.  Second Installment: 50% after the author submits 100 printed copies of the book along with an expenditure statement for verification.
This grant is not given for reprint.

Eligibility criteria include: The applicant should be an Author/Writer.
The applicant should lack sufficient financial resources to cover the publishing expenses of the rare books.
The book should have been considered rare for the development of arts
The submitted book should not have been published before. The application process is as follows: The advertisement is published in the newspapers, calling for applications by the Tamil Nadu Eyal Isai Nataka Mandram.
Step 1: The interested applicant should visit (during office hours) the office Mandram and request a hard copy of the prescribed format of the application form from the concerned staff.
Step 2: In the application form, fill in all the mandatory fields, paste the passportsized photograph (signed across, if required), and attach copies of all the mandatory documents (selfattest, if required).
Step 3: Submit the duly filled and signed application form along with the documents to the Tamil Nadu Eyal Isai Nataka Mandram. 
Step 4: Request a receipt or acknowledgement from the concerned authority to whom the application has been submitted. Ensure that the receipt contains essential details such as the date and time of submission, and a unique identification number (if applicable). For more information, please refer to: Guidelines: https://www.tn.gov.in/rti/proactive/inftour/handbook_artculture.pdf Tags associated with the scheme include: Arts, Book, Financial Assistance, Grant, Publication.