The name of this welfare scheme is Swasraya Scheme For Parents/Mothers Of Physically Handicapped/Mentally Retarded Persons. It is also known as SSP/MPH/MRP. The scheme “Swasraya Scheme for Parents/Mothers of Physically Handicapped/Mentally Retarded Persons” was launched by the Department of Social Justice, Government of Kerala. Under the scheme, financial assistance is provided to women of Below Poverty Line (BPL) families to find self-employment, whose husbands have died/abandoned, and who have to take care of their sons/children with severe physical and mental challenges.
Parents of severely mentally retarded and differently-abled persons require emotional strength and flexibility. Older parents can find themselves overwhelmed by various medical, caregiving, and financial responsibilities. Physically Handicapped/Mentally Retarded (PH/MR) persons always need special care and attention since they cannot perform their day-to-day activities without someone else’s assistance. Sometimes it can be quite challenging for older parents in BPL families, especially mothers, who have to take care of household tasks and work apart from taking care of MR persons.
Looking after such a Mentally challenged/PH person is expensive. These expenses can arise from medical equipment and supplies, medical care, caregiving expenses, specialized transportation, etc. Even though an amount of ₹600/- is being provided as “Aswasakiranam Pension” to caregivers (family members) of bedridden PH/MR persons, it cannot cover the expenses completely. Single mothers face tremendous challenges. Often, a custodial parent must fulfill the roles of primary provider and caregiver without the benefit of a partner. It is a difficult task under the best of circumstances. The scheme targets beneficiaries such as Individual. It is specifically implemented in Kerala. The implementing agency is District Social Justice Office, Kerala. Additionally, the nodal department is Social Justice Department.

The scheme provides the following benefits: Under the scheme, a onetime financial assistance of ₹35,000/will be provided to women of BPL families to find selfemployment, whose husbands have died/abandoned, and who have to take care of their sons/children with severe physical and mental challenges.

Eligibility criteria include: The applicant should be a native and resident of Kerala State.
   The applicant should be from Below Poverty Line (BPL) family.
   The parents (mothers) with children having 70% or more disability / mental retardation are eligible to apply under the scheme.
   Single/Unwed mothers/Wives abandoned by husbands/Legally divorced women/Separated women are eligible to apply under this scheme.
   Close relatives (womenas mentioned in the above category) who act as caretakers of severely disabled/mentally challenged patients can also apply.

Note 01: Mothers of severely disabled/mentally challenged bedridden patients will be given priority.
Note 02: Beneficiaries of the “Aswasakiranam Scheme” can also apply under the scheme. The application process is as follows: Registration Process:
Step 01: To avail of the benefits of the scheme, the applicant needs to visit SUNEETHIOnline Service Application Portal
Step 02: On the home page, click on “One time Registration”
Step 03: Fill in the details like Name, Email ID &amp;amp; Mobile Number and click on ‘Register’.
Step 04: The applicant needs to enter the verification code received on the mobile number and click on ‘Verify’.
Step 05: Now, a form will open to create the new profile, fill in all the mandatory details and click on ‘Register’.
Login/Application Process: 
Step 01: Once the registration process is completed, the applicant should visit SUNEETHIOnline Service Application Portal and click on “Citizen Login”.
Step 02: Enter the user name i.e. Mobile Number and Password and click on “Sign in”.
Step 03: Now, the applicant needs to update all their details i.e. Personal Information, Contact Details, Identity Cards &amp;amp; Bank Details by clicking on the &amp;#39;Edit&amp;#39; button.
Step 04: Once the applicant updated their profile successfully, the schemes will appear on the left side of the screen.
Step 05: Select the scheme and click on the “Apply Now” button.
Step 06: Fill in all the mandatory details in the application form and click on the ‘Submit’ button. Step 01: To avail of the benefits of the scheme, the applicant needs to contact the nearest Anganwadi Centre and collect the application form, or visit the official website of the Social Justice Department, Government of Kerala to download the application form.
Step 02: The applicants need to fill out the application form completely.
Step 03: The duly filled application form along with the documents prescribed has to be submitted to the nearest Anganwadi Centre. For more information, please refer to: Official Website: http://sjd.kerala.gov.in/scheme-info.php?scheme_id=MTM3c1Y4dXFSI3Z5 Application Form: http://sjd.kerala.gov.in/DOCUMENTS/Downloadables/Application%20Forms/21257.pdf Order/Notice: http://sjd.kerala.gov.in/DOCUMENTS/Order_new/GOs/21258.pdf Tags associated with the scheme include: BPL, Financial Assistance, Mentally Retarded, Mother, Parents, Physically Handicapped, Self-employment.