The name of this welfare scheme is Fellowship For Superannuated Faculty Members. It is also known as FFSFM. The &quot;Fellowship for Superannuated Faculty Members&quot; scheme is a fellowship scheme by the University Grants Commission (UGC), Department of Higher Education to provide opportunities to superannuated faculty members of Universities/Institutes/Colleges, hereinafter “Institutions” to pursue research in their area(s). The scheme targets beneficiaries such as Individual. The implementing agency is University Grants Commission (UGC). Additionally, the nodal ministry is Ministry of Education and the nodal department is Department Of Higher Education.

It falls under the categories: Education & Learning.

Eligibility criteria include: (i) Faculty members at the level of Professors/Associate professors (who are going to superannuate within six months or already superannuated) from the following institutions are eligible to apply under the schemes:

Universities (including constituent and affiliated colleges/institutions) are included under Section 2(f) of the UGC Act, 1956, and have valid accreditation from NAAC.
Deemed to be Universities under Section 3 of the UGC Act 1956 and having valid accreditation from NAAC.
Institutions fully funded by Central or State Governments and empowered to award Degrees.
Institutions of National Importance.

(ii) Age: up to 67 years
(iii) The applicant must have successfully supervised the Ph.D. dissertations of 10 fulltime candidates, 3 of whom have received their degrees during the preceding 10 years.
(iv) The applicant must have handled, as Principal Investigator, at least 3 sponsored research projects funded by national/international agencies.
(v) The applicant shall not hold any administrative responsibility during the tenure of the fellowship which would be from the date of superannuation.
(vi) The applicant and Institutions shall have to provide an undertaking in the application as per AnnexureI. For more information, please refer to: Guidelines: https://frg.ugc.ac.in/download/Guidelines-Superannuated%20faculty.pdf Tags associated with the scheme include: Faculty, Fellowship.