The name of this welfare scheme is Upgrading the Skills and Training in Traditional Arts/Crafts for Development. It is also known as USTTAD. The Upgrading the Skills and Training in Traditional Arts/Crafts for Development (USTTAD) scheme is a program launched by the Ministry of Minority Affairs, Government of India, in 2015. The scheme aims to preserve the rich heritage of traditional arts and crafts of minorities and to provide employment opportunities to minority youth in these sectors.
Objective 

1. To build capacity of master craftsmen/artisans.
1. Training of young generation through the master craftsmen/ artisans for traditional arts/crafts.
1. Preservation of rich heritage of the traditional arts and crafts of minorities.
1. To establish linkages of traditional skills with the global market.
1. To improve employability of existing workers, school dropouts etc.
1. To generate means of better livelihood for marginalized minorities and bring them in the mainstream.  
1. To enable minorities to avail opportunities in the growing market.
1. To ensure dignity of labour.
1. Research and development in traditional arts/crafts.

The USTTAD scheme covers a wide range of traditional arts and crafts, including:

1. Handloom weaving
1. Carpet weaving
1. Embroidery
1. Pottery
1. Metalwork
1. Wood carving
1. Stone carving
1. Painting
1. Sculpture
1. Calligraphy
1. Music
1. Dance

Under this, master craftsmen and artisans are provided with training to upgrade their skills and to become trainers. They then train minority youth in the traditional arts and crafts. The scheme also provides support for the development of market linkages for the products of the trained artisans.


The USTTAD scheme is implemented through Project Implementing Agencies (PIAs), which are non-governmental organizations (NGOs) with experience in the field of skill development and traditional arts and crafts. The PIAs are responsible for identifying and recruiting master craftsmen and artisans, developing course modules, and providing training to minority youth.


The USTTAD scheme has benefited thousands of minority youth across India. The scheme has helped to preserve traditional arts and crafts and to provide employment opportunities to minority youth. The scheme targets beneficiaries such as Individual. Additionally, the nodal ministry is Ministry Of Minority Affairs.

The scheme provides the following benefits: Free training in a traditional art or craft
Stipend during the training period 

  ₹ 10,000/per trainee for the nonresidential programme
  ₹ 13,000/per trainee for the residential programme

Assistance in finding employment after completing the training

Eligibility criteria include: USTTAD scheme Project Implementing Agencies (PIAs)

Societies registered under Societies Registration Act for at least three years, with experience of conducting traditional skill development courses with established market linkages.
Private recognized/registered professional institutions of repute conducting traditional skill development courses for at least the last three years with established market linkages.
Industry or an association of industries like ASSOCHAM, CII, FICCI etc. who are willing to run training centres as per financial norms of the scheme with a proper plan.
Institution of Central/State Governments including Universities, Public Sector Undertakings and Training institutes of Central State Governments including Panchayati Raj Training institutions having the capacity to conduct such training programmes and fulfill the mandatory criteria.



USTTAD scheme Eligible Trainees/beneficiaries:

Must belong to minority community. 25% candidates belonging to BPL families of nonminority communities may also be considered. 3% seats will also be reserved for differently abled persons belonging to minority communities.
Must be between 1435 years of age. Upper age limit may be relaxed for differently abled persons belonging to minorities.
Minimum qualification should be at least Class V. This may also be relaxed for differently abled persons belonging to minorities.
More than one member of a family is eligible for training in the same art/craft form, provided she/he fulfills the eligibility criteria The application process is as follows: To apply for the USTTAD scheme, candidates must contact the nearest PIA. For more information, please refer to: Guidelines: http://usttad.minorityaffairs.gov.in/WriteReadData/PdfDocument/637311127571652703.pdf PIA List: http://usttad.minorityaffairs.gov.in/EmpaneledPIAs.aspx