The name of this welfare scheme is State Reward to the Recipient of National Award. It is also known as SRRNA. The scheme &quot;State Reward to the Recipient of National Award&quot; has been designed by the Directorate of Art and Culture, Government of Goa as a token of appreciation in order to support and promote the local artists, who have received recognition at the National and International levels.


> Objectives


1. To give State recognition to the local artists receiving the National Award.
1. To appreciate local talents and promote local artists.
1. To give financial support to local artists. The scheme targets beneficiaries such as Individual. It is specifically implemented in Goa. Additionally, the nodal department is Art, Culture and Museums Department.

The scheme provides the following benefits: A memento, a certificate of appreciation and a financial purse to the extent of ₹ 1,00,000/per individual.

Eligibility criteria include: a)       The applicant should be a Goan artist who has received any of the following National Awards:

Sahitya Akademi Award. 
Sangeet Natak Akademi Award. 
Lalit Kala Akademi Award. 
Padma Award for the contribution to the field of art &amp; culture (for literature, music, dance, theatre, fine art, folk art etc.) 
Bhartiya Dnyanpeeth Award. 
Saraswati Sanman. 
Sahitya Akademi Jivan Gaurav Puraskar (Lifetime Achievement Award). 
Sangeet Natak Academy Fellowship. 
Any other National or International Award specially recognized by the Government of Goa for the purpose of this scheme from time to time. 

b)       Those living artists who have already received such awards stated above shall also be eligible for this scheme.


NOTE: Under this scheme, an artist shall be eligible to receive the benefit only once, although he gets more than one award from amongst above mentioned awards. The application process is as follows: Step 1: The interested applicant should visit the Directorate Of Art &amp; Culture, Government of Goa, 5th Floor, Shram Shakti Bhavan, Panaji, Patto, Panaji, Goa 403001
Step 2: Take a print of the proforma of the application form of the respective scheme, or request a hard copy from the concerned authority.
Step 3: In the application form, fill in all the mandatory fields, paste the passportsized photograph (signed across), and attach copies of all the mandatory documents (selfattest if required).
Step 4: Submit the duly filled and signed application form along with the documents to the Director or to the ACOIII, Directorate of Art &amp; Culture, Phone: 08322404606, Email: aco6dac.goa@nic.in For more information, please refer to: Citizen's Charter: https://www.goa.gov.in/wp-content/uploads/2022/06/Chitizen-Charter-2022-2023-art-and-culture.pdf Guidelines 1: https://www.artandculture.goa.gov.in/en/schemes-programmesawards/state-reward-to-the-recipient-of-national-and-international-awards-scheme Guidelines 2: https://www.goa.gov.in/wp-content/uploads/2016/05/UPRESENTATION-OF-GOA-STATE-REWARDS.pdf Tags associated with the scheme include: Artist, Award, Culture, Dance, Literature, Music.