The name of this welfare scheme is Scheme for Award of Scholarships to School or College-Going Children of Employees/Industrial Employees in Various Establishments. It is also known as SASSECEIE. The &quot;Scheme for Award of Scholarships to School or College-Going Children of Employees/Industrial Employees in Various Establishments&quot; is a Welfare Scheme by the Goa Labour Welfare Board, Department of Labour and Employment, Goa. The scheme aims to provide financial assistance to children of workers employed in establishments covered under the Goa, Daman &amp; Diu Labour Welfare Fund Act, 1986. Through this scheme, scholarships are awarded to support the educational pursuits of these children. The scheme targets beneficiaries such as Individual. It is specifically implemented in Goa. The implementing agency is Goa Labour Welfare Board. Additionally, the nodal department is Labour and Employment Department.

The scheme provides the following benefits: > Scholarship


Group 1: ₹2,000 for Class 5th &amp; 6thGroup 2: ₹2,800 for Class 7th, 8th, 9th &amp; 10th.Group 3: ₹3,600 for Class 11th, 12th, University Admission Index Supplementary Courses (UAI SC), etc.Group 4: ₹10,000 for Graduation and Post Graduation Degree Courses in Arts, Science, Commerce, and Lower Technical courses.Group 5: ₹20,000 for Higher Technical courses, Research, and Doctorate Studies.
> Frequency of Disbursal

The scholarship amount is paid in one instalment, disbursed annually.
> Mode of Disbursal

The amount is disbursed through the Electronic Clearing Service (ECS) facility to the parents&#39; bank account.

Eligibility criteria include: > For the Worker


The applicant should be a regular worker.
The applicant should be employed in an industrial establishment for at least six months.
The industrial establishment should be covered under the Goa, Daman &amp; Diu Labour Welfare Fund Act, The applicant should be performing any skilled or unskilled, manual or clerical labour, other than in a position of supervision or management.
The total income of the applicant from the salary should not exceed ₹20,000 per month, including all allowances and perks but exclusive of bonus.

> For the Child


The child of the applicant should be enrolled in a recognized institution in India.
The child of the applicant should be pursuing general or technical education, including medical, engineering and agricultural studies.
The child of the applicant should have qualified for promotion in the last annual examination with at least 45% marks.

> Preference/Relaxation/Reservation/Priority

10% of the total number of scholarships fixed for each group shall be reserved for the following Children of Workers With Income, From All Sources, Not Exceeding ₹3,500 Per Month.
Children Belonging to Other Backward Communities.
Physically Handicapped Children.

NOTE 1: Students who are pursuing research work or higher learning in the same professional or academic line shall be eligible for the scholarship, i.e., Doctor of Philosophy (PhD) or Master of Philosophy (M. Phi.) after completing Postgraduate (P.G.) Courses, Doctor of Medicine (M.D.) or Master of Surgery (M.S.) after Bachelor of Medicine, Bachelor of Surgery (M.B.B.S.).
NOTE 2: Students who receive a scholarship or stipend from any other source will be granted a scholarship to the extent the fund’s scholarship exceeds the other scholarship or stipend. The application process is as follows: Step 1: The interested applicant should take print of the prescribed format of the application form for the scheme from the Official Website of the Department of Labour and Employment, Goa.
Step 2: In the application form, fill in all the mandatory fields, paste the passportsized photograph (if required), and attach copies of all the mandatory documents (selfattest, if required).
Step 3: The interested applicant should submit the duly filled and signed application form and the documents through their employers or through the Heads of Educational Institutions where their child is studying, to the Secretary, Goa Labour Welfare Board, 4th floor, Shram Shakti Bhavan, Patto Centre, Panaji, Goa 403 The application should reach the Secretary on or before 30th Sept, every year. For more information, please refer to: Guidelines & Application Form: https://labour.goa.gov.in/wp-content/uploads/2020/07/SCHEME-3-converted.pdf Citizen's Charter: https://www.goa.gov.in/wp-content/uploads/2016/05/Citizen-Charter-Labour-Depatment-DATED-16032016.pdf Contact Us: https://www.goa.gov.in/department/commissioner-labour-and-employment/ Tags associated with the scheme include: College, Scholarship, School, Student, Worker.