The name of this welfare scheme is Financial Assistance on the Natural Death of Differently Abled Person. It is also known as FAOTNDODAP. The scheme &quot;Financial Assistance on the Natural Death of Differently Abled Person&quot; was launched by the Department for the Welfare of Differently Abled Persons, Government of Tamil Nadu. Through this scheme, financial assistance of ₹15,000/- is provided to the legal heir in the event of the natural death of the differently-abled person. The applications are accepted offline in the prescribed form available at the District Differently Abled Welfare Office. The scheme targets beneficiaries such as Individual. It is specifically implemented in Tamil Nadu. Additionally, the nodal department is Welfare of Differently Abled Persons Department.

The scheme provides the following benefits: Financial Assistance of ₹15,000/to the legal heir.

Eligibility criteria include: The applicant should be the legal heir of the differently abled person.
The differentlyabled person should have died a natural death.
The differently abled person should have been a registered member of the &quot;Welfare Board for the Differentlyabled&quot;. The application process is as follows: Step 1: The interested applicant should visit (during office hours) the District Differently Abled Welfare Officer and request a hard copy of the prescribed format of the application form from the staff exclusively entrusted to issue and collect filledin applications.
Step 2: In the application form, fill in all the mandatory fields, and attach copies of all the mandatory documents (selfattest, if required).
Step 3: Submit the duly filled and signed application form along with the documents to the District Differently Abled Welfare Officer.
Step 4: Request a receipt or acknowledgement from the District Differently Abled Welfare Officer to whom the application has been submitted. Ensure that the receipt contains essential details such as the date and time of submission, and a unique identification number (if applicable). For more information, please refer to: Citizen’s Charter (2022): https://cms.tn.gov.in/sites/default/files/documents/wda_e_cc_2022_23.pdf Tags associated with the scheme include: Death, Differently Abled, Financial Assistance.