The name of this welfare scheme is Swami Vivekananda Utkrisht Chhatravriti Yojna. It is also known as SVUCY. The scheme &quot;Swami Vivekananda Utkrisht Chhatravriti Yojna&quot; is a Scholarship Scheme by the Department of Education, Government of Himachal Pradesh. The scheme aims to support meritorious students in their pursuit of higher education. Under this scheme, an amount of ₹ 18,000/- will be given to the eligible students per year for two successive years after matric. Every year, 2000 scholarships are awarded to excellent students from the general category. The scheme targets beneficiaries such as Individual. It is specifically implemented in Himachal Pradesh. The implementing agency is National Scholarship Portal. Additionally, the nodal department is Education Department, Himachal Pradesh.

The scheme provides the following benefits: A scholarship of ₹ 18,000/.

Eligibility criteria include: The student should be a resident of Himachal Pradesh.
The applicant should be a Student.
The applicant should have passed Class 10th.
The applicant should have come in merit (in top 2000).
The applicant should be from the general category.
The applicant should be enrolled in Class 11th or any professional/technical course in a recognized institute. The application process is as follows: Step 1: Go to the Official Website of the National Scholarship Portal. and click “New Registration”. Guidelines for Registration will appear. Scroll to the bottom. Read carefully the undertaking. Accept the Terms. Click “Continue”.
Step 2: A Registration Form will appear. The fields marked as  are mandatory. Fill in the details and click “Register”. Your Application ID and password will be displayed. The same will also be sent as an SMS to your registered mobile number. 
Step 3: Go to https://scholarships.gov.in/fresh/newstdRegfrmInstruction 
Click on “Login to Apply”. Enter your Application ID and password. Type the Captcha and click “Login”. On the next screen, provide the OTP received on your registered mobile number. You will be directed to the Password Reset screen. Create a new password and confirm. Click “Submit”. You will be directed to the “Applicant’s Dashboard”.
Step 4: On the left pane, click “Application Form”. The fields marked as  are compulsory. Fill in the details and upload the documents. You can either click on “Save as Draft” to complete the application later. Else, click “Final Submit” to apply.
NOTE: All the applicants are advised to fill the form correctly, no changes can be made once submitted. The applicants are also advised to fill in only one application as multiple applications will cancel the form. For more information, please refer to: Guidelines: https://scholarships.gov.in/public/schemeGuidelines/HP_state_scheme/Swami_Vivekanand_Utkrisht_Chattarvriti_Yojna-202324.pdf FAQs: https://scholarships.gov.in/public/FAQ/HP_Queries.pdf Documents Requirement: https://hpepass.cgg.gov.in/NewHomePage.do?actionParameter=stateSchemes Tags associated with the scheme include: Education, Financial Assistance, Scholarship, School, Student.