The name of this welfare scheme is Widow Pension (HBOCWWB). It is also known as WPHBOCWWB. The scheme “Widow Pension” is implemented by the Haryana Building and Other Construction Workers Welfare Board (HBOCWWB), Labour Department, Government of Haryana. Under this scheme, a monthly pension of ₹3,000/- is given to the widow of a registered construction worker who is not receiving a similar benefit from any other Government/ Department/ Board/Corporation/PSU. The scheme targets beneficiaries such as Individual. It is specifically implemented in Haryana. The implementing agency is Haryana Building & Other Construction Workers Welfare Board. Additionally, the nodal department is Labour Department.

The scheme provides the following benefits: Under the scheme, ₹3,000/per month is given as a widow pension to the widow of the registered construction worker.

Eligibility criteria include: The applicant should be the widow of a deceased construction worker.
   The deceased worker should have been registered with the Haryana Building &amp;amp; Other Construction Workers Welfare Board.
   The deceased worker should have been a regular member of HBOCWWB for at least three years.
   The widow should reside in Haryana.
   The widow should not be employed by the Haryana Government, any board, corporation, or PSU.
   The widow will not be eligible for the monthly pension if she remarries.
   The widow should not be receiving a similar benefit from any other government entity, department, board, corporation, or PSU. The application process is as follows: > Registration for deceased Construction worker under HBOCWWB:

Step 01: The applicant should visit the Official Website of the Labour Department Haryana. 
Step 02: On the home page, click on the “Building &amp;amp; Ors Const. Workers Welfare Board” link. A new window page will be opened. If you don&amp;#39;t have login details then click on “Click Here” to register.
Step 03: Applicant has to read all the instructions and then “Tick” the acknowledgment, then click on the “Submit” button.
Step 04: Select “I have Family ID” and enter Parivar Pehchan Patra Number (Family ID). (Forget/not having Family ID: If you do not have PPP ID or forget the PPP ID, then you have to select that radio button and you are redirected to the PPP Portal for getting their PPP ID.)
Step 05: Select the option “Registration for deceased worker” and click on “Click Here to fetch Family Details” which displays the family members registered under the given Family ID. Select a family member for registration
Step 06: Enter the OTP that is being sent to the selected family member for verification. Click on “Click to Verify” and further click on the “Continue” button.
Step 07: After verification, fill out the complete registration form and submit the form.
Step 08: Login into the account: After the final submission of the registration form, the applicant can login into his/her account using their username and password but unable to avail of any benefit. 
&gt; Apply for Scheme Benefits:

Step 01: Visit the Official Website of the Labour Department Haryana.
Step 02: On the home page, click on &amp;quot;HBOCW Board Beneficiary Login&amp;quot;.
Step 03: Enter your Username, Password, Captcha, and click on the submit button.
Step 04: In the opened window, click on &amp;quot;Schemes&amp;quot;, and a list of schemes will appear on the screen.
Step 05: Now, select the scheme and read its details.
Step 06: Fill in all the required details in the online application form and submit it.
&gt; Application Tracking:

Applicant can track their application status online through the official website of the Labour Department Haryana. Relevant updates will be sent to the registered mobile number. For more information, please refer to: Official Website: https://hrylabour.gov.in/bocw/settings/schemeDetail/146 Registration Link: https://hrylabour.gov.in/bocw/Basicinfo/bocw_terms Application Tracking: https://hrylabour.gov.in/login/bocw Tags associated with the scheme include: Building Worker, Construction Worker, Labour, Pension, Widow.