The name of this welfare scheme is Free Coaching Scheme for SC and OBC Students. It is also known as FCSSOS. &amp;quot;Free Coaching Scheme for SC and OBC Students&amp;quot; is an Education Scheme by the Department of Social Justice and Empowerment, Ministry of Social Justice and Empowerment. The objective of the Scheme is to provide coaching of good quality for economically disadvantaged Scheduled Castes (SCs) and Other Backward Classes (OBCs) candidates to enable them to appear in competitive examinations for obtaining appropriate jobs in the Public/Private Sector and/or for securing admission in reputed technical and professional higher education institutions. 
&lt;br&gt;

The Scheme will be implemented by the Ministry with the assistance of Dr Ambedkar Foundation (DAF) through Central Universities empanelled under the Scheme. The scheme was revised in 2022-23. Under the revised guidelines, there is no empanelment of institutes. The students are selected directly by the Department and can undertake coaching in any institute of their own choice. Thus, no institute is empanelled under the scheme now.
&lt;br&gt;

&gt; Category-wise Ratio of Candidates 


   1. 3500 students will be selected under this scheme annually.
   1. The percentage of SC students shall not be less than 70%. In case of the non-availability of an adequate number of candidates in the SC category, the MoSJE can relax this ratio. However, in no case, a less than 50% of SC students be permitted.   1. Also under each category, 30% of the slots shall be reserved for female candidates. In case sufficient numbers of female candidates are not available under any category, male candidates from the same category shall be considered by the Ministry. The scheme targets beneficiaries such as Individual. The implementing agency is Dr Ambedkar Foundation (DAF) Through Central Universities Empanelled Under The Scheme. Additionally, the nodal ministry is Ministry Of Social Justice and Empowerment and the nodal department is Department of Social Justice & Empowerment.

The scheme provides the following benefits: Stipend @ ₹ 4000 per month for the full duration of the course not exceeding 12 months.
₹ 15,000 as an incentive to the successful students for coaching for interviews for all the students clearing the mains stage of Central Civil Services / State Civil Services Exams for Class 1 and Class 2 posts.



> Mode of Payment


All the admissible payments shall be released to the students through DBT in their Aadharenabled bank accounts.
The fee and stipend shall be released in two instalments of 50% each of the admissible amount.
The first instalment shall be released immediately at the commencement of the course.
The second instalment will be released after the conclusion of more than 75% of the course duration.

NOTE: The students will be required to remit the portion to the institution fee immediately and in any case not exceeding 15 days, to the Central Universities where they are receiving coaching.


> Courses for Coaching 

The courses for which the Coaching will be imparted shall be as follows: 

Group A and B examinations conducted by the Union Public Service Commission(UPSC), the Staff Selection Commission (SSC) and the various Railway Recruitment Boards (RRBs); 
Group A and B examinations conducted by the State Public Service Commissions; 
Officers’ Grade examinations conducted by Banks, Insurance Companies and Public Sector Undertakings (PSUs); 
Premier Entrance Examinations for admission in (i) Engineering (e.g. IITJEE), (ii) Medical (eg. NEET), (iii) Professional courses like Management (e.g. CAT) and Law (e.g. CLAT), and (iv) Any other such disciplines as Ministry may decide from time to time. 
Eligibility tests/examinations like SAT, GRE, GMAT, IELTS and TOEFL. 
Entrance examination tests for CPL courses/National Defence Academy and Combined Defence Services.

Eligibility criteria include: ##### Eligibility Criteria for Students

   The applicant should be a student.
   The applicant should be from Scheduled Caste or Other Backward Class.
   The total annual family income of the applicant (from all sources) should be ₹ 8,00,000 or less.
   For the competitive exams for which the qualifying exam is class 12th, the candidate should have passed class 12th or be studying in class 12th as of the date of receiving the benefit under the scheme.
   Further, in case of competitive exams for which the qualifying exam is Undergraduate level, the candidate should have completed the undergraduate level course or studying in the final year of the undergraduate course concerned at the time of receiving the benefit under the scheme shall be eligible.
   Benefits under the Scheme can be availed by a particular student not more than twice, irrespective of the number of chances he/she may be entitled to take in a particular competitive examination and irrespective of the number of stages in the exam.
   The applicant should not already be availing of the benefits of any other coaching scheme.

&lt;br&gt;

NOTE: A list of beneficiaries availing the scheme will also be uploaded on the website of the Ministry and shall be shared with Central Universities/Central Institutes to avoid the possibility of the candidate availing benefits of a similar coaching scheme simultaneously or more than twice.
&lt;br&gt;

##### Eligibility Criteria for Universities

   A maximum of 100 seats per Central University shall be allocated to such empanelled entities.
   For the purpose of viability, one Central University/Institution shall not have less than a total of 50 students.
   Courses per Central University: Not more than 4 courses indicated in para 3 of these guidelines can be assigned to one Central University.
   For each course, not less than 25 students per course shall be permitted. The application process is as follows: The Central University shall issue suitable advertisements inviting willing and eligible students to apply online on the Free Coaching Scheme Portal)/Home.aspx) along with the details of the course he/she intends to join.


> Timelines


Notification calling for applications: 1st May 
Last date for receipt of applications: 31st May 
Tentative date for the declaration of merit list for the PMS and TCS students: 5th June 
Tentative date for declaration of merit list for others: 30th June 
Last date for Joining PMS/TCS students in coaching institutions and uploading fee receipts: 4th December
Last date for others joining the coaching institutions: 29th December
Last date for release of the coaching fee: Within one month of submission of fee receipt
Last date for uploading of exam hall ticket: 30 days from the date of the entrance exam for which coaching has been taken
Last date for release of the stipend: 30 days from uploading of exam hall ticket and selfcertification regarding taking the exam For more information, please refer to: Guidelines: https://socialjustice.gov.in/public/ckeditor/upload/69491687240203.pdf FAQs: https://coaching.dosje.gov.in/(S(ko10mm0fy0l10kmimlosr0gp))/docs/faq.pdf Contact Us: https://coaching.dosje.gov.in/(S(i4vtneavtdrl35rgj4ecwvfc))/contact.aspx Tags associated with the scheme include: Coaching, Examination, Other Backward Class, Scheduled Caste, Stipend.