The name of this welfare scheme is Internship Programme Of The Department Of Expenditure. It is also known as IPDOP. The Internship Programme of the Department of Expenditure aims to familiarize willing and eligible undergraduates pursuing five-year integrated courses and Graduates pursuing post-Graduation/ post-Graduates pursuing Research with the overall process of formulation of economic policies of the Government. The internship is neither a job nor any such assurance for a job in the Department of Expenditure.


> Duration

The duration of the internship will be from two to six months at different points in time during the financial year.


> Declaration of Secrecy

Interns will be required to furnish to the Department a declaration of secrecy before reporting for the Internship.


> Logistics Support

Interns will be provided with the necessary logistics support i.e. office space and a computer with an internet facility.


> Placement

The interns would be attached with one of the DS/Director level officers in the different Divisions of the Department of Expenditure keeping in view the areas of interest expressed by the candidates and as per the preference of that Division. The scheme targets beneficiaries such as Individual. Additionally, the nodal ministry is Ministry Of Finance and the nodal department is Department of Expenditure.

The scheme provides the following benefits: > Remuneration

Token Remuneration @ ₹ 10,000/per month per intern, payable on satisfactory completion of their internships and on submission of their Report / Paper.


> Certificate of Internship 

Certificates will be issued to the interns on satisfactory completion of their internship and on submission of their Report/Paper and its evaluation by the DS/Director level officer in the concerned Division.

Eligibility criteria include: Indian national pursuing postgraduation Research Courses in Economics/Finance/Management and in the 4th and 5th year of 5year integrated Course in Law/any other professional course from Universities/Institutions of National and International repute are eligible to apply for the internship provided Students pursuing postgraduate courses should have obtained a firstclass Graduate degree.
Research Scholars Pursuing courses in Economics/Finance/Management, should have obtained at least 50% marks in PostGraduation.
Students in the af a 5h year of the 5 year integrated Law course should have obtained at least 80% marks in their 12th Class examination. The application process is as follows: Interested and eligible students are to send their applications, along with their CVs in the enclosed proforma to Section Officer (Admnl), Department of Expenditure, Room No.264B, North Block, New Delhi. For more information, please refer to: Guidelines: https://doe.gov.in/sites/default/files/InternshipProg_DoE2017.pdf Tags associated with the scheme include: Economics, Expenditure, Finance, Internship.