The name of this welfare scheme is Grant-in-aid to Non-governmental Organisations. It is also known as GIANGO. The scheme “Grant-in-aid to Non-governmental Organisations&quot; was launched by the Department of Social Welfare, Government of Puducherry. The objective of this scheme is to cover 90% of estimated maintenance cost for the registered NGOs running residential homes for the children, aged, and vulnerable persons. The scheme targets beneficiaries such as NGO. It is specifically implemented in Puducherry. Additionally, the nodal department is Social Welfare Department, Puducherry.

The scheme provides the following benefits: 90% of estimated maintenance cost.



NOTE: Contact the authorities below in case of delay in disbursal of benefits:
Puducherry: The Director, Directorate of Social Welfare, Saradhambal Nagar, Ellaipillaichavadhy, Puducherry. 
Karaikal: The Collector, Karaikal.
Mahe/Yanam: The Regional Administrator, Mahe/Yanam.

Eligibility criteria include: The NGO should have a sound financial position. 
The NGO should have facilities and resources for running the residential homes. 
The NGO should be nonsectarian offering services to its beneficiaries irrespective of religion, caste, colour or creed. 
The NGO should not be run for profit of any individual or a body of individuals. 
The NGO should be free from corrupt practices. The application process is as follows: Step 1: The interested applicant should visit (during office hours) the Office/ SubOffice of the Department of Social Welfare, and request the hard copy of the prescribed format of the application form from the staff exclusively entrusted to issue and collect filledin applications.
OR
The interested applicant should take print of the prescribed format of the application form.
Step 2: In the application form, fill in all the mandatory fields, paste the passportsized photograph (signed across, if required), and attach copies of all the mandatory documents (selfattest, if required).
Step 3: Submit the duly filled and signed application form along with the documents to the authority given below Puducherry: The Deputy Director, Differently Abled Section, Directorate of Social Welfare. Karaikal: The Assistant Director, Social Welfare Department (Sub Office).Mahe / Yanam: The Welfare Officer (i\c), Social Welfare Department (Sub Office). 
Step 4: Request a receipt or acknowledgement from the concerned authority to whom the application has been submitted. Ensure that the receipt contains essential details such as the date and time of submission, and a unique identification number (if applicable). For more information, please refer to: Guidelines: https://socwelfare.py.gov.in/grant-aid-non-governmental-organisations Citizen's Charter: https://socwelfare.py.gov.in/sites/default/files/citizen-charter.pdf Application Form: https://socwelfare.py.gov.in/sites/default/files/application-form-grant-registration-certificate-old-age-home.pdf Contact Us: https://socwelfare.py.gov.in/contact-us Sub Offices: https://socwelfare.py.gov.in/sub--office-social-welfare-department Grievance Redressal: https://pgportal.gov.in/ Tags associated with the scheme include: Aged, Children, Maintenance Cost, NGOs, Vulnerable Persons.