The name of this welfare scheme is Mukhyamantri Alpsankhyak Rozgar Rinn Yojana. It is also known as MARRY. The &amp;quot;Mukhyamantri Alpsankhyak Rozgar Rinn Yojana&amp;quot; scheme was launched by the Minority Welfare Department, Government of Bihar. The objective of this scheme is to provide loans of up to ₹5,00,000/- at a simple annual interest rate of 5% to youths from minority communities (Muslim, Sikh, Christian, Buddhist, Jain, and Parsi) for generating employment. The loan must be repaid in 20 quarterly installments over a period of 5 years. This is a state-sponsored scheme and is implemented by the Bihar State Minorities Financial Corporation Limited. The scheme targets beneficiaries such as Individual. It is specifically implemented in Bihar. The implementing agency is Bihar State Minorities Financial Corporation Limited. Additionally, the nodal department is Minority Welfare Department.

The scheme provides the following benefits: Under this scheme, loans of up to ₹5,00,000/are provided to youth from minority communities at a simple annual interest rate of 5% for the purpose of generating employment.

Note 1: After issuing the Sanction Order, the loan amount is transferred to the beneficiary&amp;#39;s account via RTGS.
Note 2: If the sanctioned amount is:

  More than ₹1,00,000/(per unit of equipment or machines, etc.): The amount is transferred to the vendor’s account after receiving a quotation or proforma invoice.  Less than ₹1,00,000/: The amount is transferred directly to the applicant&amp;#39;s account.
&gt; Loan Recovery:


  Interest: A simple interest of 5% will be levied on the loan amount after a 3month moratorium period.  EMI: The loan must be repaid in 20 equal quarterly installments.  Processing Charge: A 5% processing fee of the sanctioned amount will be deducted before the RTGS payment.  Rebate: A 5% rebate on the outstanding interest will be given if the full loan amount is repaid on time.  Penalty: Failure to pay EMIs on time will result in compounded interest being recovered at the end of the financial year.  Postdated Cheques: The applicant is required to submit 10 to 20 postdated cheques.

Eligibility criteria include: The applicant should be a permanent resident of Bihar.
   The applicant should apply for the scheme benefits in their district of permanent residence.
   The applicant should belong to a minority community (Muslim, Sikh, Christian, Buddhist, Jain, or Parsi).
   The applicant&amp;#39;s age should be between 18 and 50 years.
   The applicant should not be a government or semigovernment employee.
   The applicant’s annual family income should be less than ₹4,00,000/.

Note 1: The loan must be used exclusively for employment and incomegeneration activities.
Note 2: Applicants from all minority communities, except Muslims, must submit a religious belief certificate issued by a recognized religious body.
&gt; Priority Criteria:

Former beneficiaries who have fully repaid their loans on time are exempt from the selection and site inspection process.
Preference will be given to applicants who meet one or more of the following criteria:

  Have an educational qualification or are trained under a skill development scheme
  Reside in a rural area
  Are women, disabled, abandoned, or widowed
  Aged between 18 to 35 years
  Members of a governmentregistered cooperative institution, federation, or selfhelp group (SHG)
  Experienced applicants or shopkeepers

&gt; Guarantor:


  Upto ₹1,00,000/: Self guarantee/guarantee by a person who has/ whose either parent has a rent receipt/ other related document for guarantee.  More than ₹1,00,000/: A govt/semigovt/bank/ autonomous body employee (at least 5 years of service remaining), income tax payee, Anganbadi workers, teachers from Registered Madarsas, permanent teachers or mutawalli from registered waqf who has immoveable properties of equitable mortgage. The application process is as follows: Step 1: The Bihar State Minorities Financial Corporation Limited will publish an advertisement in daily newspapers, inviting loan applications to be submitted at the District Minority Welfare Office (DMWO).
Step 2: Interested applicants must submit the application form, along with the required documents, to the District Minority Welfare Office in the district where they plan to start their business.
Step 3: Before the loan is sanctioned, a site inspection and verification of the submitted documents will be conducted. The divisional incharge will prepare a site inspection report and provide recommendations.
Step 4: The Corporation&amp;#39;s regional office will collect and process additional documents from selected applicants, including affidavits, agreement letters, guarantee bonds, and hypothecation forms. The regional office incharge will sign these documents on behalf of the Corporation.
Step 5: After successful verification and completion of the required documentation, the loan amount will be sanctioned and disbursed to the selected candidates.
Note: For additional information, please contact the District Minority Welfare Office located at the District Headquarters. For more information, please refer to: Guidelines: https://state.bihar.gov.in/cache/42/Schemes/MW-Rojgar-Wrin-Yojana.pdf Scheme Details (Page No. 5): https://bsmfc.org/wp-content/uploads/2020/01/Yojnadarpan.pdf BSMFC Website: https://bsmfc.org/mukhyamantri-shram-shakti-yojna/ Scheme Details: https://bsmfc.org/wp-content/uploads/2020/01/Mukhyamantri-Alpsankhyak.pdf Tags associated with the scheme include: Employement, Loan, Minority, Youth.