The name of this welfare scheme is Drip Sanyantr. It is also known as DSR. The Drip Sanyantr under the Agriculture Department Rajasthan government gives subsidies to farmers. Proper utilization of every drop of water by drip plant, 75-80 percent saving of water and increase in quality production through efficient technology. For the successful operation of a drip irrigation system, it is necessary to calculate the correct water requirement because through this system only water is given equal to the requirement of the plants. The water requirement of plants varies seasonally and every month and the working hours of the system are balanced accordingly.


> Important points


1. After issuing administrative approval from the irrigation department.
1. The grant amount is transferred to the account of the farmer or the supplier manufacturer/dealer with the consent of the farmer. The scheme targets beneficiaries such as Individual. It is specifically implemented in Rajasthan. Additionally, the nodal department is Agriculture Department.

The scheme provides the following benefits: 70% subsidy is given to general farmers and 75% subsidy is given to small, marginal Scheduled Caste, Scheduled Tribe, and women farmers.
All categories of farmers are given subsidies on drip plants up to a maximum area of 5 hectares.

Eligibility criteria include: The applicant should be a farmer.
The applicant should be a native of Rajasthan.
The farmer should have at least 2 hectares of irrigated cultivable land. The application process is as follows: > Registration

Step1: Applicant have to visit the official portal. 
Step2: Click on the option “Register”.
Step3: Then you will be redirected to the SSO registration page. The registration page will appear with the following options.


  Citizen


Step4: Choose the either one option from  the Jan Aadhaar Or Google to process further.


  Jan Aadhaar : Enter the Jan Aadhaar number, click on the ‘Next’ button,


      Select your name, the name of the head of the family and all the other members and 
      Click on the ‘Send OTP’ button. Enter the ‘OTP’ and 
      Click on the ‘Verify OTP’ button to Complete the registration. 






  Google : Enter the Gmail ID, click on the ‘Next’ button, 


      Enter the password.
      A new link appear on screen, now click on the new SSO link.
      SSO id will appear on the screen, now create the password.
      Enter Mobile number, click on registration.




Step5: Submit.


> APPLY

Step1: Applicant have to visit the official portal. 
Step2: After login, dashboard will open.
Step3: Click on “ RAJKISAN ” option. 
Step4: In &quot;Farmer&quot;, click on &quot;Application Entry Request&quot;.
Step5: Enter the &quot;Bhamashah ID&quot; or &quot;Janaadhaar ID&quot; and search.  
Step6: Select the person name and scheme name. 
Step7: Complete the Aadhaar Authentication and click on Get details. 
Step8: Provide the required details.
            Pensioner Details.
            Bank Details.
            Disability Details.
            Verification Details.
            Upload Documents.
Step9: Submit. For more information, please refer to: Guidelines: https://rajkisan.rajasthan.gov.in/Rajkisanweb/Kisan Registration: https://sso.rajasthan.gov.in/register Login: https://sso.rajasthan.gov.in/signin Tags associated with the scheme include: Agriculture, Drip Sanyantr, Farmer, Farming.