The name of this welfare scheme is Mother Teresa Asahay Matri Sambal Yojana. It is also known as MTAMSY. Department of Social Justice and Empowerment, Government of Himachal Pradesh has introduced a scheme named &amp;quot;Mother Teresa Asahay Matri Sambal Yojana&amp;quot; aimed at empowering women who are unable to raise their children due to financial hardships. The scheme provides financial assistance per child per annum for up to two children, supporting expenses related to the child&amp;#39;s upbringing, including education, nutrition, and healthcare. The scheme is specifically designed for women from socially and economically weaker sections of society, such as widows and destitute women, who face significant challenges in bringing up their children. The goal of the scheme is to reduce the dropout rate of children from underprivileged backgrounds and promote the welfare of children from marginalized sections of society. The scheme targets beneficiaries such as Individual. It is specifically implemented in Himachal Pradesh. Additionally, the nodal department is Department of Social Justice and Empowerment.

The scheme provides the following benefits: Financial assistance of ₹5,000/per child per year for up to two children.
   Support for expenses related to the child&amp;#39;s upbringing, including education, nutrition, and healthcare.
   Empowering women who are unable to raise their children due to financial hardship.
   Encouraging education and reducing the dropout rate of children from underprivileged backgrounds.
   Promoting the welfare of children from marginalized sections of society.
   The assistance shall be given once the children attain age of 18 years.

&lt;br&gt;

Eligibility criteria include: The applicant must be a resident of Himachal Pradesh.
   The applicant must be a woman who is unable to raise her child/children due to financial hardship.
   The applicant must have a maximum of two children with maximum age of 18 years.
   The applicant must belong to a socially and economically weaker section of society.
   The applicant&amp;#39;s children must be studying in a recognized school.
   The annual family income should not be more than ₹35,000/. The application process is as follows: Visit the official website of the department.   On visit, the applicant first needs to register on the platform. Click &amp;quot;Sign Up&amp;quot; button this webpage.   The applicant can register by using Aadhaar number, Him Parivar ID, Him Member ID, Ration Card.
   Once registered, click &amp;quot;Log in to apply&amp;quot; on this webpage.   Once successfully logged in, fill the application form and submit.
   Further applicant is redirected to payment window. Download the confirmation receipt. Download the application form.Fill the application form, and submit to Panchayat Secretary/Gram Panchayat. Once signed by the concerned person, submit the form in the office Tehsil Welfare Officer of the District. For more information, please refer to: Guidelines: https://himachal.nic.in/WriteReadData/l892s/176_l892s/Mother%20Teresa%20Asahay%20Yojna-29049975.pdf Tags associated with the scheme include: Financial Assistance, Mother Teresa Scheme, Widow.