The name of this welfare scheme is District Innovation And Challenge Fund. It is also known as DICF. &quot;District Innovation and Challenge Fund (DICF)&quot; is an innovation scheme by the Finance, Planning, and Investment Department (Planning &amp; Investment Division), Govt. of Arunachal Pradesh. The objectives of the scheme are:

1. Instill a sense of competitiveness amongst the Deputy Commissioners for developmental interventions.
1. To bring innovation in the design, planning, and implementation of critical infrastructure.
1. Introduce cutting-edge and latest technology in filling up infrastructural gaps in the districts.
1. To instill a sense of participation amongst the Deputy Commissioners for major infrastructural interventions in the districts.
1. Foster partnerships between State Government and the community.
1. Foster community involvement and participation.
1. Deliver effective outcomes from State’s policies and fund allocation. The scheme targets beneficiaries such as Individual. It is specifically implemented in Arunachal Pradesh. Additionally, the nodal department is Planning Department.

It falls under the categories: Transport & Infrastructure, Utility & Sanitation.

Eligibility criteria include: The project must meet all of the following criteria:

The project should be innovative and outofthebox thinking that solves a critical problem or meets up a critical need involving unique and/or cuttingedge technology.
Projects must practically address a need directly associated with the problems of the district or harness the existing potential of the district for the benefit of the community.
Projects must create an impact on employment within the district and ensure revenue generation for the community and the State.
Projects must demonstrate an innovative, new, or creative way of addressing the existing problems of the district.
The project should add value to existing goods and products of the district and ensure better remuneration for the goods and products, especially in the agriculture, horticulture, textile, and handicrafts sectors.



> Assessment Criteria for the Proposals:

i. Innovation (40 % weightage) 
a) Is the project an innovative intervention to address the infrastructural gap in the district? 
b) Is the project an innovative intervention to meet the critical needs of the community and solve critical problems of the district? 
c) Does the project involve cuttingedge or unique technology to address the needs of the district? 
d) Does the project practically support the solutions to the problems of the district? 
e) Does the project demonstrate an innovative, new, or creative way of addressing the problems of the district? 


ii. Project planning (20 %weightage)
a) Is there a clearly identified need that this project is addressing?
b) Does this project have a clear goal and project plan?
c) Is the project leveraging collaborative partnerships or converging resources from other sources (CSS or State schemes)?
d) Does the application provide an achievable timeline for completion?


iii. Budget (20 %weightage)
a) Does the budget accurately reflect the scope and scale of the project?
b) Has the DPR been prepared as per APSoR?
c) Have quotes been provided to support key items (applicable in case of projects that involve direct procurement and installation of products/items)? 


iv. Social Impact (10 %weightage) 
a) Does the project generate employment? 
b) Is it a revenuegenerating project? 
c) Was there broader community participation in developing the idea or project plan? 
d) Does the proposal provide a community engagement plan with community input and/or impacts of the project outlined?


v. Sustainability (10 %weightage)
a) Does the application provide a continuous improvement plan?
b) Does the application demonstrate a sustainability plan if it is intended to continue beyond the period of funding? For more information, please refer to: Guidelines: https://cdn.s3waas.gov.in/s339059724f73a9969845dfe4146c5660e/uploads/2018/08/2018080250.pdf Proforma For Submission Of Proposal: https://cdn.s3waas.gov.in/s339059724f73a9969845dfe4146c5660e/uploads/2018/02/2018022581.pdf Tags associated with the scheme include: Development, Infrastructure, Innovation, Policy.