The name of this welfare scheme is Development of Industrie-Training Scheme. It is also known as DOITS. The Government of Puducherry introduced the Scheme Development Of Industries-Training Scheme for the candidates to develop their skills to enable them to start their own ventures or to get suitable employment opportunity by sponsoring to selected short term trades  offered by the Training Institution situated in the neighboring states of India.
Under the scheme, training is given with stipend in various trades to the educated unemployed youths to create more employment opportunities or to start own venture.
To motivate entrepreneurship among the youth of Union territory of Puducherry.
> Period of Training: One year. The scheme targets beneficiaries such as Individual. It is specifically implemented in Puducherry. Additionally, the nodal department is District Industries Centre Organization.

The scheme provides the following benefits: The pattern of assistance:

For TraineesStipend

(i) SSLC/ITI/H.S.C. – Rs.1,500 /per month.
(ii) Graduate in Arts and Science/ Diploma in Engineering or equivalent – Rs. 2,500 /per month.
(iii) Degree in Engineering &amp; PG – Rs.3,000 /per month  (the stipend will be paid based on the minimum qualification fixed for the trades concerned).
To the Training Institutions :

For Industries –

Towards wastage of raw material – Rs.300 /per trainee per month.

Eligibility criteria include: Residence should be the native of Puducherry Union Territory (or) should have a continuous residence of 3 years in the U.T. of Puducherry.  
Proof: Birth certificate/Education certificate/Residence certificate.
Already trained candidates in various Govt. Schemes are not eligible to apply. The application process is as follows: The District Industries Centre shall release an advertisement in local daily newspapers thereby inviting applications from eligible applicants.
Step 1: Application will be called through wide publicity every year. Applicant should apply in the prescribed form to this office directly addressed to the General Manager, District Industries Centre, Pondicherry Any application received through any organization or association will not be accepted. 
Step 2: Request a hard copy of the proforma from the concerned authority.
Step 3: Applications should be duly supported by the following documents.

A certificate from the District Collector/ Dy. Commissioner certifies the financial position of the applicant including a certificate that the applicant is not in receipt of financial assistance from any other source. 
Age certificate from the appropriate authority. 

OR 

  Required certificates in respect of income and age mentioned above can also be furnished by the craftsperson himself/ herself in the form of an affidavit declared before a First class Magistrate.

Step 4: Submit the duly filled and signed application form along with the documents to the General Manager, District Industries Centre, Pondicherry. 
> Contact officer: The Technical Officer, Yanam. For more information, please refer to: Guidelines: https://cdn.s3waas.gov.in/s3ddb30680a691d157187ee1cf9e896d03/uploads/2021/07/2021073089.pdf Tags associated with the scheme include: Diploma, Engineering, Graduate, HSC, Industries, Puducherry.