The name of this welfare scheme is Development Of Playfield Under CMSGUY. It is also known as DP-CMSGUY. The &amp;quot;Development of Playfield&amp;quot; Scheme is a Component under the Umbrella Scheme of &amp;quot;Chief Minister Samagra Gramya Unnayan Yojna (CMSGUY)&amp;quot; by the Govt. of Assam. CMSGUY was launched by Hon&amp;#39;ble Chief Minister Sarbananda Sonowal on 5th February 2017 in Guwahati. The scheme is being implemented in a mega-mission mode across Assam. CMSGUY will be implemented through a saturation model by covering each revenue village through focused interventions in direct economic activities, logistic support including market linkages, and community support.
&lt;br&gt;

The scheme &amp;quot;Development of Playfield&amp;quot; is an Infrastructure Development Scheme by the Assam Youth Development Mission Society (AYDMS) formed under Chief Minister Samagra Gramya Unnayan Yojna (CMSGUY). AYDMS has decided to develop one playfield for the promotion of Games and Sports in the State through the Sports &amp;amp; Youth Welfare Department, Govt. of Assam. It has been decided to develop 500 Football Playfields during 2017-18 in the first phase of operation of the scheme. It has been proposed to develop one football playground and playing facilities like Volleyball Courts having a dressing room, store-cum-office, and toilet facilities. A boundary wall will also be provided for the protection of the playground. The scheme targets beneficiaries such as Institution. It is specifically implemented in Assam. The implementing agency is Assam Youth Development Mission Society (AYDMS). Additionally, the nodal department is Sports and Youth Welfare Department.

It falls under the categories: Transport & Infrastructure.

Eligibility criteria include: The Schools, Colleges, Clubs, and other Sports Organizations have playgrounds measuring a minimum of 120m in length x 90m in breadth that will be considered for development. 
The Schools, Colleges, and Clubs having requisite suitable land in the area can apply in a prescribed format to take up the scheme for the upgradation of their playgrounds.
The earth filling should be done with sandy and loamy soil. 
The top surface of the playground should be made with sufficient sand filling and planting required grass.
The compaction of the playfield should be made with a light roller not exceeding 2 tons.
There must be sufficient space a minimum of 5m wide around the playfield for the movement of the players, officials, and spectators and for the construction of the dressing room.
The available playfield should be owned by either the local School/College Authority, Sports Club, or Gaon Panchayat.
Playing facilities should be made available to the Children, Youth, and Senior Citizens of the villages. For more information, please refer to: Guidelines: https://dsyw.assam.gov.in/sites/default/files/swf_utility_folder/departments/dsyw_medhassu_in_oid_4/menu/document/Guidelines.pdf Tags associated with the scheme include: Development, Infrastructure, School.