The name of this welfare scheme is Providing Scholarships to Children of BOC Workers. It is also known as PSCBOCW. The &quot;Providing Scholarships to Children of BOC Workers&quot; welfare scheme by the Andhra Pradesh Building &amp; Other Construction Workers LET&amp;F (Labour) Department. The scheme provides scholarships to children of registered workers who are not enrolled under Chandranna Bima. This scheme is aimed at supporting the education of construction workers&#39; children in addition to any other government scholarships. The scheme targets beneficiaries such as Individual. It is specifically implemented in Andhra Pradesh. Additionally, the nodal department is Labour Department.

The scheme provides the following benefits: 9th to 12th Grade or ITI: ₹1,200/per yearProfessional Courses at the Graduation Level: ₹5,000/per year

Eligibility criteria include: The worker should be registered with the AP Building &amp; Other Construction Workers Welfare Board.
The children of workers not enrolled under Chandranna Bima are eligible.
The student should have enrolled in 9th to 12th grade or ITI/ Professional Courses (Graduation Level).
Each family can receive scholarships for a maximum of two children. The application process is as follows: Step1: The interested applicant should visit (during office hours) the A.P. Building &amp; Other Construction Workers Welfare Board and request a hard copy of the prescribed format of the application form from the staff exclusively entrusted to issue and collect filledin applications.
Step2: In the application form, fill in all the mandatory fields, and attach copies of all the mandatory documents (selfattest, if required).
Step3: Submit the duly filled and signed application form along with the documents to the Assistant Labour Officer/Assistant Commissioner of Labour.
Step4: Request a receipt or acknowledgement from the Assistant Labour Officer/Assistant Commissioner of Labour to whom the application has been submitted. Ensure that the receipt contains essential details such as the date and time of submission, and a unique identification number (if applicable).


NOTE: Applications must be submitted within 3 months from the start of the academic year. For more information, please refer to: Guidelines: https://apbocwwb.ap.nic.in/APBOCWW3/2018LETF_MS14.pdf Official Website: https://apbocwwb.ap.nic.in/apbocwwbhome.jsp Tags associated with the scheme include: Children, Construction Worker, ITI, Scholarship.