The name of this welfare scheme is Financial Aid For Providing Hostel Facility To Transgender Students. It is also known as FAPHFTS. The scheme “Financial Aid for Providing Hostel Facility to Transgender Students” was launched by the Department of Social Justice, Government of Kerala. Transgender share the same hopes and dreams as any other individual in our society. 58% of Transgender students drop out before completing 10th grade (24% of Transgender students drop out even before completion of 9th grade). Reasons for this include- severe harassment making studies impossible and other gender-related negative experiences at school. In order to help such school dropouts continue their education, Social Justice Department has implemented a scholarship scheme for Transgender.
           The transgender community is still ostracized in society and cannot take up job offers or continue their education due to a lack of accommodation facilities. Though there has been improvement in the mindset of the people, still the stigma of giving transgender persons a house exists in society. Due to this problematic scenario, transgender who are pursuing the scholarship scheme are forced to discontinue their studies. For addressing this issue, the Department of Social Justice has introduced this scheme that provides an amount of ₹4,000/- per month as financial assistance to the Transgender community as rent for finding hostel facilities/accommodation. The scheme targets beneficiaries such as Individual. It is specifically implemented in Kerala. The implementing agency is District Social Justice Office, Kerala. Additionally, the nodal department is Social Justice Department.

The scheme provides the following benefits: Under the scheme, financial assistance of ₹4,000/per month will be provided to Transgender students as rent for finding hostel facilities/accommodation during the course.

Eligibility criteria include: The applicant should be Transgender.
The applicant should be a resident of Kerala.
Transgender students pursuing courses in Government / Aided /Unaided / Selffinancing institutions can apply under this scheme.
Note: During the commencement of each academic year the students have to submit a new application for getting the benefit of this scheme. The application process is as follows: Registration Process:
Step 01: To avail of the benefits of the scheme, the applicant needs to visit SUNEETHIOnline Service Application Portal
Step 02: On the home page, click on “One time Registration”
Step 03: Fill in the details like Name, Email ID &amp; Mobile Number and click on ‘Register’.
Step 04: The applicant needs to enter the verification code received on the mobile number and click on ‘Verify’.
Step 05: Now, a form will open to create the new profile, fill in all the mandatory details and click on ‘Register’.
Login/Application Process: 
Step 01: Once the registration process is completed, the applicant should visit SUNEETHIOnline Service Application Portal and click on “Citizen Login”.
Step 02: Enter the user name i.e. Mobile Number and Password and click on “Sign in”.
Step 03: Now, the applicant needs to update all their details i.e. Personal Information, Contact Details, Identity Cards &amp; Bank Details by clicking on the &#39;Edit&#39; button.
Step 04: Once the applicant updated their profile successfully, the schemes will appear on the left side of the screen.
Step 05: Select the scheme and click on the “Apply Now” button.
Step 06: Fill in all the mandatory details in the application form and click on the ‘Submit’ button. Step 01: To avail of the benefits of the scheme, the applicants need to visit the official website of the Social Justice Department, Government of Kerala, and download the application form.
Step 02: The applicants need to fill out the application form completely.
Step 03: The duly filled application forms have to submit along with supporting documents (Declaration Statements from District Transgender Justice Board / District Social Justice Officer, House owner, From the concerned Educational Institution.) For more information, please refer to: Official Website: http://sjd.kerala.gov.in/scheme-info.php?scheme_id=MTQ4c1Y4dXFSI3Z5 Application Form: http://sjd.kerala.gov.in/DOCUMENTS/Downloadables/Application%20Forms/27306.pdf Tags associated with the scheme include: Accommodation, Financial Assistance, Hostel Facility, Student, Transgender.