The name of this welfare scheme is National Fellowship For OBC Students. It is also known as NFOS. Background
The scheme &quot;National Fellowship for OBC Students&quot; was launched by the University Grants Commission (UGC), Department of Higher Education (DoHE) during the financial year 2014-15 to increase the opportunities for the students of Other Backward Classes (OBCs) to pursue higher education leading to acquiring degrees such as M.Phil. and Ph.D.
The scheme aims at providing financial assistance to OBC students in obtaining quality higher education leading to degrees such as M.Phil. and Ph.D. in universities, research institutions, and scientific institutions. This will not only enable them to be eligible for employment to the posts of Lecturers lying vacant in various colleges and universities but will also equip them to effectively take advantage of the growing opportunities at the national and international level in the context of the new economic order.


Scope of the Scheme
The scheme is designed to provide a total number of 300 Junior Research Fellowships per year from the year 2014-15 and 300 Senior Research Fellowships from 2016-17 to Other Backward Class (OBC) students. The number of intake of JRF has been enhanced from 300 to 1000 per year onwards to undertake advanced studies and research leading to M.Phil./Ph.D. Degrees, who have qualified in the following tests:


i. National Eligibility Test ) – Junior Research Fellowship (NET-JRF) of UGC (for Humanities/Social Sciences) or
ii. UGC-Council of Scientific and Industrial Research (UGC-CSIR) NET-JRF Joint Test (for Science)


The scheme covers all universities/institutions recognized by the University Grants Commission (UGC) and is implemented by the UGC itself on the pattern of the scheme of UGC Fellowship being awarded to research students pursuing M.Phil. and Ph.D. These 1000 slots will be over and above the number of OBC students selected under the normal reservation policy of the Government for UGC Fellowship. The scheme targets beneficiaries such as Individual. The implementing agency is University Grants Commission (UGC). Additionally, the nodal ministry is Ministry of Education and the nodal department is Department Of Higher Education.

It falls under the categories: Education & Learning.

Eligibility criteria include: The eligibility conditions are as per notification for UGCNET and CSIRUGCNET examinations. 



The other Backward Class (OBC) candidates qualifying for the award of NFOBC will be eligible to receive a fellowship subject to finding placement in the University/IITs/Institutions. 
The validity period of the offer is 3 years with effect from the date of issue of the JRF Award letter. However, in the case of candidates who have already joined M/Phil. /Ph.D. the date of commencement of fellowship shall be from the date of declaration of result of NFOBC or date of their joining, whichever is later.
Students belonging to the Other Backward Class (OBC) category once considered eligible for the fellowship shall not be entitled to any other benefits from the Central or State Government or any other body like UGC offering similar benefits to avoid duplication and increase coverage. Only those, doing regular and fulltime M./Phil. /Ph.D. course of a University/Research Institution shall be eligible for the fellowship. 
After two years, if the progress in the research work of the awardee is found satisfactory, his/her tenure will be extended for a further period of three years as Senior Research Fellow (SRF). The research work will be assessed as per the UGC norms. The total period of award of JRF and SRF shall not exceed a period of 5 years.
At least 4% of the total seats should be reserved for students with disabilities while making a selection of candidates for the award of fellowships by the UGC.
Employees of any University/College/Educational institution/Central/State/UT Government shall be excluded from availing the fellowship, even if they are on study leave or Extra Ordinary Leave (EOL) to pursue M.Phil./Ph.D.



Selection Procedure

The selection of students will be made on the basis of merit in each UGCNETJRF and CSIRNETJRF examination and will be made twice a year. 
However, preference will be given to such students who have secured admission. In case sufficient such candidates are not available, candidates who have not secured admission will also be selected in the order of merit in the NET examination. A separate merit list would be drawn up for such candidates if required.
The qualified candidates have to enroll in universities/institutions/colleges recognized under: 




Under Sections 2 (f) of the UGC Act, 1956, i.e., Universities established under Central, Provincial, or State Acts or any other institution recognized by UGC.
GrantinAid Deemed Universities under Section 3 of the UGC Act, i.e., institutions for higher education notified by the Central Government to be deemed Universities, in consultation with UGC.
Universities/Institutions funded by State/ Central Government.
Institutions of National Important as notified by the Ministry of Human Resource Development. (mhrd.gov.in/institutionsnationalimportance)
The decision of the UGC regarding to awarding the fellowship shall be final and no appeal could be filed against it. For more information, please refer to: Guidelines: https://www.ugc.ac.in/pdfnews/8896061_Guideines---National-Fellowship-for-OBC-students-(NFOBC)-(w.e.f.-April-2019).pdf Tags associated with the scheme include: Fellowship, OBC.