The name of this welfare scheme is Pandit Deendayal Upadhyay National Welfare Fund For Sportspersons. It is also known as PDUNWFS. A scheme named &amp;quot;Pandit Deendayal Upadhyay National Welfare Fund For Sportspersons&amp;quot; (PDUNWFS) was launched by the Ministry Of Youth Affairs &amp;amp; Sports with the aim to provide suitable assistance to the meritorious and outstanding sportspersons of yesteryear who had brought glory to the country in international field who are now living in indigent circumstances.
The key objectives of the scheme are as follows:-

   1. To provide suitable assistance to sportspersons injured during the period of their training for competitions and also during the competitions, depending on the nature of the injury.
   1. To provide suitable assistance to sportspersons for medical treatment.
   1. To provide suitable assistance to promote welfare of sportspersons generally in order to alleviate distress among them and their dependents in indigent circumstances.
   1. To provide assistance to sportspersons living in indigent circumstances for training, procurement for sports equipment, participation in national and international sports events etc.
   1. To any other purpose deemed fit by the General Committee. The scheme targets beneficiaries such as Individual, Sportsperson. Additionally, the nodal ministry is Ministry Of Youth Affairs & Sports.

The scheme provides the following benefits: Assistance to sportspersons living in indigent circumstances: 

  A lumpsum exgratia financial assistance may be granted to an outstanding sportsperson now living in indigent circumstances, subject to a maximum of Rs. 5 lakh. 
  In addition to this, a provision of monthly pension of Rs. 5000/(Rupees five thousand) may be provided to those yesteryears meritorious sportspersons now living in indigent circumstances.

Assistance for injuries sustained during training for and participation in Sports competitions: 

  A lumpsum exgratia financial assistance subject to a maximum of Rs. 10 lakh may be granted to an outstanding sportsperson for injuries sustained during training for and participation in sports competitions.

Assistance to Families of deceased Outstanding Sportspersons: 

  A lumpsum exgratia financial assistance, not exceeding Rs. 00 lakh in each case, may be provided to the families of deceased outstanding sportspersons living in indigent circumstances.

Assistance for Medical Treatment: 

  Financial assistance not exceeding Rs. 10 lakh may be provided for medical treatment of an outstanding sportsperson or of any of his/her family members living in indigent circumstances.

Assistance to coaches, support personnel, umpires, referees and match officials:

  Lumpsum financial assistance, not exceeding Rs. 2 lakh may be provided to coaches and

support personnel such as sports doctors, sports psychologists, sports mentor,
physiotherapists, masseurs who have been attached with national coaching camps for senior
category players and national teams (senior category), and umpires, referees and match
officials, who have been associated with recognized national championships (senior category)
and international tournaments(senior category) in the sports disciplines included in Olympic
Games, Asian Games and Commonwealth Games who are living in indigent circumstances or
to family members of such deceased support personnel living in indigent circumstances.
Discretionary powers to the Chairperson of the General Committee: 

  The Chairperson of the General Committee may sanction the assistance, in deserving cases, even

to those, who technically are noneligible, taking into account full facts and circumstances
for each case and for reasons to be recorded in writing. 

  The Chairperson will have the discretion to decide the quantum of assistance.

Disclosure of information about assistance received from other resources:

  Sportspersons or family member of sportspersons applying for assistance from the Pandit

Deendayal Upadhyay National Welfare Fund for Sportspersons (PDUNWFS) will furnish
information about assistance received in kind or cash from any other source for the same
purpose.

Eligibility criteria include: Assistance to sportspersons living in indigent circumstances/Assistance to Families of deceased Sportspersons/Assistance for Medical Treatment to sportspersons or family members:

  Sportsperson of yesteryears who has retired from active sports.
  He/She has won medals in individual events or team events in National Games and National Championships (Senior category) conducted by National Sports Federations (NSFs), recognized by Ministry of Youth Affairs &amp;amp; Sports. Or,


  One who has participated in an International sports events such as Olympic Games, ParaOlympics, Deaflympics, Asian Games, Para Asian Games, Commonwealth Games, World Cup/Championship, Asian Championship, Commonwealth Championship in senior category in the sports disciplines included in Olympic.

Assistance for injuries sustained during training for and participation in Sports competitions:

  Sportsperson for injuries sustained during training for and participation in sports competitions listed above but will also include Sub Junior and Junior category competitions.

Assistance for training, procurement of equipment and participation in national and international sports events:

  Sportspersons, whose parents are living indigent circumstances.


  Whether support from any other Scheme of the Ministry is being availed by the applicant or the applicant can be assisted under other Schemes of the Ministry are also eligible.


  Sportspersons belonging to those sports disciplines whose Federations are either derecognized or whose recognition has been suspended by the Government or the Federations who has so far not got the recognition of the Government, will also be eligible for assistance for this purpose.

Assistance to coaches and support personnel/Assistance for medical treatment to coaches and support personnel:

  Coaches and support personnel such as sports doctors, sports psychologists, sports mentor, physiotherapists, masseurs who have been attached with national coaching camps for senior category players and national teams (senior category), and umpires, referees and match officials, who have been associated with recognized national championships (senior category) and international tournaments(senior category) in the sports disciplines included in Olympic Games, Asian Games and Commonwealth Games who are living in indigent circumstances or to family members of such deceased support personnel living in indigent circumstances. The application process is as follows: Step 1:  An application for financial assistance from the Fund shall be addressed to the MemberSecretary of the Executive Committee in the prescribed Performa given in the scheme guidelines.
The filled signedin application is required to be sent to the following address:
Member Secretary,
Pandit Deendayal Upadhyay National Welfare Fund for Sportspersons (PDUNWFS),
Ministry of Youth Affairs and Sports,
Shastri Bhawan, 
New Delhi Registration Process:
a) The applicant needs to first register on: https://dbtyassports.gov.in/Registration. Then need to fill the required personal details including verification of their mobile number through OTP.
b) After successful registration, the applicant will get a message that the login credentials have been sent to the registered email ID.
PostRegistration Process:
a) The applicant need to use the login credentials received on the registered email ID and login on: https://dbtyassports.gov.in/login. Please remember to refresh captcha before clicking on Log In button.
b) After first time login, the applicant will be required to update their other basic details. After filling the details click on ‘Update’ button and the profile will be successfully updated.
c) The applicant will click on ‘Schemes’ tab and apply for the &quot;Pandit Deendayal Upadhyay National Welfare Fund For Sportspersons&quot; scheme. For more information, please refer to: Guidelines: https://yas.nic.in/sites/default/files/NWFS_Scheme%2022092017.pdf Amendments 1: https://dbtyas-sports.gov.in/assets/annexure/PDUNWFS.pdf Amendments 2: https://sportsauthorityofindia.nic.in/sai/assets/news/1699954323_pandit%20din%20dayal-cropped.pdf User Manual For Registration: https://dbtyas-sports.gov.in/assets/cms_files/User_Manual_for_Registration_for_Online_Schemes.pdf Offline Application Proforma: https://dbtyas-sports.gov.in/assets/annexure/PDUNWFS.pdf Tags associated with the scheme include: Financial Assistance, Medical Treatment, Social Empowerment, Sportsperson, Welfare.