The name of this welfare scheme is Plantation Crop Development Scheme. It is also known as PCDS. The scheme “Plantation Crop Development Scheme” was launched by the Department of Agriculture &amp;amp; Farmers’ Welfare, Government of Meghalaya to boost up the area and production of all plantation crops like Arecanut, Cashewnut, Coconut, Pineapple etc., and to provide 50 % subsidy planting materials and construction of soakage tank. The scheme targets beneficiaries such as Individual. It is specifically implemented in Meghalaya. The implementing agency is Department Of Agriculture & Farmers’ Welfare, Government Of Meghalaya. Additionally, the nodal department is Agriculture Department.

The scheme provides the following benefits: > Type of assistance:


Financial assistance at a 50% subsidy for purchasing of planting materials, and polypipes.
Financial assistance at a 50% subsidy for the construction of soakage tank.

> Pattern of assistance:


Oneyear assistance.

Eligibility criteria include: The applicant/farmer should be a resident of Meghalaya.
   The applicant should be a bonafide farmer engaged in Agriculture, possessing own or leased land of at least 2 (hectares) or more.

Note: The applicant farmer can avail of the benefits of the scheme on a first come first serve basis. The application process is as follows: &gt; Application Process:

Step 01: The eligible bonafide farmer can apply/write an application on plain paper.
Step 02: Along with the application, attach copies of all the mandatory documents (selfattest, if required).
Step 03: Submit the duly filled and signed application along with the documents at your nearest office of the Horticulture Development Officer of a CD Block/ Horticulture Circle.
&gt; Mode of Selection of Beneficiary(s):

Bonafide farmers on a first come first serve basis.
&gt; Whom to Contact:

District Horticulture Officer
Horticulture Development Officer For more information, please refer to: Official Website: https://megagriculture.gov.in/PUBLIC/schemes_ShowSchemesH.aspx?schid=100 Tags associated with the scheme include: Arecanut, Cashewnut, Coconut, Farmer, Horticulture, Pineapple, Plantation Crop, Subsidy.