The name of this welfare scheme is Handicrafts Export Award. It is also known as HEA. The &quot;Handicrafts Export Award&quot; scheme was launched by the Handlooms, Handicrafts, Textiles, and Khadi Dept, Government of Tamil Nadu. This award is given to encourage the exporters of handicraft items with a cash prize of ₹40,000/-, 4 gm gold medal, Thamirapattiram &amp; a certificate. The exporter can apply offline for this award through Poompucar Sales and Manufacturing Plant Managers. The scheme targets beneficiaries such as Business Entity. It is specifically implemented in Tamil Nadu. Additionally, the nodal department is Handlooms, Handicrafts, Textiles and Khadi Department.

The scheme provides the following benefits: Cash Prize of ₹40,000/.
4gm Gold Medal.
Thamirapattiram.
Certificate.

Eligibility criteria include: The applicant should be a native of Tamil Nadu. 
The applicant should be a manufacturer of handicrafts in Tamil Nadu.
The applicant should be an exporter of Tamil Nadu Handicrafts.
The applicant should be a direct exporter.
The exporter should not be banned by Govt. The application process is as follows: Advertisements are released in June every year.
Step 1: The interested applicant should take print of the prescribed format of the application form.
Step 2: In the application form, fill in all the mandatory fields, paste the passportsized photograph (signed across, if required), and attach copies of all the mandatory documents (selfattest, if required).
Step 3: Submit the duly filled and signed application form along with the documents (during office hours) to the Head Office only through Poompucar Sales and Manufacturing Plant Managers.
Step 4: Request a receipt or acknowledgment from the concerned authority to whom the application has been submitted. Ensure that the receipt contains essential details such as the date and time of submission, and a unique identification number (if applicable). For more information, please refer to: Citizen Charter (2021): https://cms.tn.gov.in/sites/default/files/documents/tnhdc_e_cc_2021_22.pdf Application Form: https://poompuhar.com/tnhdc/downloads/16355860722104819521.pdf Tags associated with the scheme include: Exporter, Financial Assistance, Handicrafts, Manufacturer, Prize.