The name of this welfare scheme is Scheme for Giving Awards to Traditional Artists. It is also known as SFGATTA. &quot;Scheme for Giving Awards to Traditional Artists&quot; was launched by the Art and Culture Department, Government of Tamil Nadu. Through this scheme, awards are conferred to the participant artists whose works are adjudged outstanding among the entries at the State-level Traditional Art Exhibition conducted by the Kuzhu. The awarded works are put on display for public view in the exhibition. The applications are accepted offline in the prescribed form available at the Oviya Nunkalai Kuzhu. The scheme targets beneficiaries such as Artists. It is specifically implemented in Tamil Nadu. Additionally, the nodal department is Art and Culture Department.

The scheme provides the following benefits: Prize Money of ₹5,000/per artist is given to 10 artists.

Eligibility criteria include: The applicant should be an artist.
The artist should be a native of Tamil Nadu by continuous residence for not less than 5 years.
The artist should be in the field of creating artworks like tanjore paintings, glass paintings, traditional paintings, wood carvings, metal sculptures, etc. The application process is as follows: Step 1: The interested applicant should visit (during office hours) the Oviya Nunkalai Kuzhu (Tamil Nadu Fine Arts Academy) and request the hard copy of the prescribed format of the application form from the concerned staff.
Step 2: In the application form, fill in all the mandatory fields, and attach copies of all the mandatory documents (selfattest, if required).
Step 3: Submit the duly filled and signed application form along with the documents either directly or by post to the Member Secretary, Tamil Nadu Oviya Nunkalai Kuzhu, Directorate of Art and Culture, Dr. D.G.S. Dinakaran Road, (Greenways Road) Chennai 600 028
Step 4: Request a receipt or acknowledgement from the concerned authority to whom the application has been submitted. Ensure that the receipt contains essential details such as the date and time of submission, and a unique identification number (if applicable).
NOTE: The artist will have to pay an entry fee of ₹10/along with the filledup application form. For more information, please refer to: Guidelines: https://www.tn.gov.in/rti/proactive/inftour/handbook_artculture.pdf Tags associated with the scheme include: Artist, Award, Exhibition, Financial Assistance, Painting.