The name of this welfare scheme is Kamban Pugazh Literary Prize. It is also known as KPLP. The Arts and Culture Department, Puducherry launched the &amp;quot;Kamban Pugazh Literary Prize&amp;quot; scheme. The objective of this scheme is to provide prizes of ₹10,000/- and 10 awards to authors/writers in the field of novels, short stories, drama, poems &amp;amp; prose in Tamil. The applications are accepted offline in the prescribed form available at the Director of Art and Culture Department. The scheme targets beneficiaries such as Individual. It is specifically implemented in Puducherry. Additionally, the nodal department is Arts and Culture Department, Puducherry.

The scheme provides the following benefits: Financial Assistance of ₹10,000/. 
No. of Awards: 10

Eligibility criteria include: The applicant should be an author/writer.
The applicant should be a native of Puducherry by virtue of birth or continuous residence of not less than five years.
The applicant should publish the best novel, short story, drama, poetry and prose.
First edition of the book should be published between 1st January and 31st December.
The publication must be of creative literature of their own.
The book should not be an abridged version of an imitation or translated version of another book or synopsis.
The literary critics/ thesis research presented to university degrees or examinations are not eligible for award
The author once awarded is not eligible to participate in the award for the next four consecutive years.
The books sent for the prize should be those not awarded by other Government / NonGovernment Organizations and Voluntary Literary Organizations. The application process is as follows: Step 1: The interested applicant downloads the application form from the official website. 
Step 2: In the application form, fill in all the mandatory fields, paste the passportsized photograph (signed across, if required), and attach copies of all the mandatory documents (selfattest, if required).
Step 3: Submit the duly filled and signed application form along with the documents to the Director of Art and Culture Department, No.1, Roman Roland Road, Puducherry 605 Step 4: Request a receipt or acknowledgment from the Director of Art and Culture Department to whom the application has been submitted. Ensure that the receipt contains essential details such as the date and time of submission, and a unique identification number (if applicable).
NOTE: An advertisement will be made in the first week of January the eligible writers to submit their last year&#39;s book by January  For more information, please refer to: Citizens Charter: https://art.py.gov.in//sites/default/files/ecit1.pdf Application Form: https://art.py.gov.in/sites/default/files/kamban202367.pdf Tags associated with the scheme include: Artist, Book, Financial Assistance, Prize, Publication.