The name of this welfare scheme is Destitute Differently Abled Pension Scheme. It is also known as DDAPS. The &quot;Destitute Differently Abled Pension Scheme&quot; was launched by the Social Welfare and Nutritious Meal Programme Department, Government of Tamil Nadu. The scheme aims to provide a pension of ₹1,000/- to differently-abled persons with disability 60% and above. One free saree to females and one free dhoti to males is given on Pongal and Diwali. A nutritious meal is provided to the beneficiaries. The scheme targets beneficiaries such as Individual. It is specifically implemented in Tamil Nadu. Additionally, the nodal department is Social Welfare and Nutritious Meal Programme Department.

The scheme provides the following benefits: Pension: 

₹1,000/per month.

Free Clothes during Pongal and Deepavali:

One free dhoti to a male pensioner.
One free saree to a female pensioner.

Free Rice in Anganwadi Centres:

2kg/month to those who are taking nutritious meal.
4kg/month to those who are not taking nutritious meal.

Eligibility criteria include: The applicant should be a hearing and speechimpaired person.
The applicant&#39;s age should be 45 years and above.
The applicant should have a disability of 60% or above.
The applicant should not have any source of income or means of subsistence to support.
The applicant should not be a habitual beggar.
The applicant should not be supported by a son or son&#39;s son aged 20 years or above.
The applicant should not possess property valued at more than ₹5000/. The application process is as follows: Step 1: The interested applicant should visit (during office hours) the Special Tahsildar/Village Administrative Officer and request a hard copy of the prescribed format of the application form from the staff exclusively entrusted to issue and collect filledin applications.
OR
The interested applicant should apply scheme with a white paper. 
Step 2: In the application form, fill in all the mandatory fields, and attach copies of all the mandatory documents (selfattest, if required).
Step 3: Submit the duly filled and signed application form along with the documents to the Special Tahsildar/Village Administrative Officer.
Step 4: Request a receipt or acknowledgment from the Special Tahsildar/Village Administrative Officer to whom the application has been submitted. Ensure that the receipt contains essential details such as the date and time of submission, and a unique identification number (if applicable). For more information, please refer to: Citizen's Charter (2011): https://cms.tn.gov.in/sites/default/files/whatsnew/socialwelfare.pdf Tags associated with the scheme include: Clothes, Destitute, Differently Abled Person, Financial Assistance, Pension.