The name of this welfare scheme is Nirman Shramik Pucca Ghar Yojana. It is also known as NSPGY. Labour and ESI Department, Government of Odisha has introduced a scheme &amp;quot;Nirman Shramik Pucca Ghar Yojana (NSPGY)&amp;quot; to meet the housing needs of the building and other construction workers in rural areas, registered under the Odisha Building &amp;amp; Other Construction Workers Welfare Board (OB&amp;amp;OCWWB), who play a pivotal role in the construction of individual and community assets and do not have their own pucca house.
Objective:

   1. The scheme&amp;#39;s objective is to provide pucca houses to Building workers &amp;amp; other construction workers in rural areas registered under the Odisha Building Workers&amp;#39; Welfare Board. 
   1. A pucca house means that it should be able to withstand normal wear and tear due to usage and natural forces including climatic conditions.

Key Features:

   1. NSPGY is a scheme purely funded by the OB&amp;amp;OCVVWB with an annual budgetary outlay to be decided by the Board for each financial year, which is subject to revision from time to time.
   1. The dwelling unit under NSPGY will be sanctioned preferably in the name of the woman head of the household.
   1. No contractor shall be involved in the construction of houses under NSPGY.
   1. The fund under the scheme shall be credited to the beneficiary&amp;#39;s account from the bank account maintained at the state level by PR &amp;amp; DW Department through Public Financial Management System (PFMS). No other form of payment to the beneficiaries will be made under the scheme.
   1. The minimum carpet area of the house should be 25 square meters including a hygienic cooking space and excluding toilet. The roof material will mandatorily be of RCC or any other material of equivalent strength approved by PR&amp;amp;DW Department. Innovation in housing typologies, design, building materials, and construction should be encouraged.

Timelines:

   1. The houses under this scheme will be ordinarily completed within 12 months from the credit of 1st installment in her/his account. 
   1. Beneficiaries constructing a bigger house must be advised to first complete the core house with a carpet area of at least 25 square meters and go for extension subsequently.

Note:

   1. Any beneficiary allotted with a house under this scheme whose house has fully collapsed/washed away/fully damaged due to landslide/elephant menace/earthquake/flood/fire accident or cyclone, will be eligible to get another house under this scheme.
   1. The funds for this scheme will be released by the OB&amp;amp;OCWW Board and the execution/implementation of the scheme will be carried out by the Panchayati Raj &amp;amp; Drinking Water Department. The scheme targets beneficiaries such as Individual, Family. It is specifically implemented in Odisha. The implementing agency is Panchayat Samities Under The Control, Direction And Supervision Of DRDAs / Zilla Parishad. Additionally, the nodal department is Rural Development Department.

The scheme provides the following benefits: The unit cost under NSPGY for new construction of dwelling houses is ₹1,20,000/for NonIAP districts and ₹1,30,000/for IAP districts.
   The beneficiary of NSPGY will get a wage component for 90 person days and 95 person days in NonIAP and IAP districts respectively under MGNREGS, which can be revised by the government from time to time.
   The beneficiary of NSPGY will avail ₹12,000 for IHHL under MGNREGS/SBM(G).
   In addition, the beneficiaries are entitled to convergence for potable drinking water supply system, electrification under “Deen Dayal Upadhyaya Gram Jyoti Yojana (DDU GJY)/BGJY”, wages for land development under MGNREGS, social security under AABY/RSBY, etc. as per extant guidelines.
   The beneficiary will avail of incentives for early completion of the house as follows:For completion of the house and IHHL within 4 months of receipt of 1st installment, an incentive of ₹  20,000/will be paid to the beneficiary.
  For completion of the house and IHHL within 6 months of receipt of 1st installment, an incentive of ₹10,000/will be paid to the beneficiary. Govt. may revise the incentive amount from time to time.

The amount/unit cost will be released in Instalments and will be linked to the level of construction reached. At present, the release of installments will be as follows:
InstallmentLevelIAP (Amount in Rupees)NonIAP (Amount in Rupees)1st InstallmentOn issuance of a work order20000200002nd InstallmentOn completion of the plinth35000300003rd InstallmentOn completion of up to roof level45000400004th InstallmentAfter completion of the house in all respects including the sanitary latrine and beneficiary starts living in the house.3000030000Total1,30,0001,20,000Note:

   The amount/unit cost can be revised by the State Government from time to time at par with “Biju Pucca Ghar Yojana (BPGY)”.
   The unit assistance for the construction of IHHL can be revised by the Government from time to time.

Eligibility criteria include: The applicant should be a permanent resident of Odisha.
   The applicant should not have a pucca house.
   The applicant must be engaged as a &amp;#39;building worker&amp;#39; in building or other construction work as defined U/s. 2(1)(d) of the Building &amp;amp; Other Construction Workers&amp;#39; (RE&amp;amp;CS) Act, 1996 and Notification No.5654 dated 2009 and No.5985 dated 2014 of the Labour &amp;amp; ESI Deptt., Govt. of Odisha for not less than 90 days during the preceding 12 months.
   The applicant should not be engaged in any building or other construction work to which the provisions of the Factories Act, 1948, or the Mines Act, 1952 apply.
   The applicant should be completed 18 years of age, but not completed 60 years of age.
   The applicant should not be a member of any other Welfare Fund established under any law.
   The construction worker should not enroll in any other district of Odisha or any other State of the country as a beneficiary in any Welfare Board.
   The applicant must be registered with the Odisha Building &amp;amp; Other Construction Workers&amp;#39; Welfare Board under the Building and Other Construction Workers (RE&amp;amp;CS) Act. The application process is as follows: A. Registration: 

   The applicant must register herself/himself with the Odisha Building &amp;amp; Other Construction Workers&amp;#39; Welfare Board under the Building and Other Construction Workers (RE&amp;amp;CS) Act: https://nirmanshramik.odisha.gov.in/obocwwb/public/cwLogin
B. Selection Process:

   The District Labour Officer (DLO) will submit the list of construction workers having existing valid registration with the Odisha Building &amp;amp; Other Construction Workers&amp;#39; Welfare Board under the Building and Other Construction Workers (RE&amp;amp;CS) Act, at least for a continuous period of 1 year to the Block Development Officer.
   While doing so the DLO will ensure that all required details are provided to the B.D.O. so as to facilitate field enquiry.
   On receipt of the said list from the DLO, the Block Development Officer (BDO) will cause scrutiny if the construction worker was earlier sanctioned with housing assistance under any of the Government Schemes and if the name of the household finds a place in the kutcha household category of the SECC 2011 list. 
   The name of households who have earlier availed of housing assistance under any of the Government Schemes or are not enlisted in the Kutcha household category of SECC 2011 will be deleted from the list. 
   However, in case the name of the beneficiary is not in the SECC list, the BDO shall inquire and certify that the beneficiary is otherwise eligible for housing assistance under NSPGY.
   BDO will cause field verification also for the construction workers in the list through Block functionaries to ascertain whether they have constructed a pucca house.
   The list of eligible construction workers found after scrutiny and field verification will be placed before the Block Level Selection Committee consisting of BDO as Chairman with Assistant Executive Engineer (AEE)/Assistant Block Development Officer (ABDO)/ Assistant Engineer (AE) as a member and Assistant Labour Officer (ALO)/ Rural Labour Inspector (RLI) as Member Convener for approval of their eligibility.
   The list of eligible beneficiaries will be recommended by the BDO to the District Collector. Upon receipt of the beneficiaries list, the District Collector will approve the same and forward the list to OB&amp;amp;OCWWB and PR&amp;amp;DW Department.
   The Panchayati Raj and Drinking Water Department will then communicate the District/Block wise target proportionate to the eligible beneficiaries of the concerned District/Block and publish the entire list of eligible beneficiaries on their portal it would also be made available in the portal of the Odisha Building and Other Construction Workers Welfare Board.
   BDO will sanction houses to the eligible registered construction workers against the target allotted by PR &amp;amp; DW Department. 
   Priority will be given in the order of seniority in registration ( i.e. the beneficiary with an earlier date of registration with the OB&amp;amp;OCWW Board will be given priority) while sanctioning housing assistance under NSPGY.

Note:

   Houses under NSPGY shall be constructed by the beneficiaries themselves.
   Panchayat Samities will be the Implementing Agencies for &amp;quot;Nirman Shramik Pucca Ghar Yojana (NSPGY)&amp;quot; under the control, direction, and supervision of DRDAs / Zilla Parishad.
   For issuance of a work order, a geotagged photograph of the beneficiary with her/his Kutcha house and a geotagged photograph of the beneficiary with the proposed site of construction should be collected. 
   All photographs for inspection of houses should be taken and uploaded using AwaasApp developed by GoI or any other such App developed by State Government.
   The photograph of the beneficiary, her/his Aadhaar UID/ EID, and mobile number should be kept in the case record and uploaded in AwaasSoft. 
   In case the beneficiary does not have a mobile connection/Phone, her/his family/relative/friend&amp;#39;s mobile number provided by the beneficiary should be recorded.
   The 2nd, 3rd &amp;amp; 4th installments will be credited to the beneficiary account by the BDO within a week of receipt of the report of the eye estimation, spot verification, and Geotagged photographic evidence of the stage of construction by the official tagged with the beneficiary concerned.
   The beneficiary will fix an engraved logo of NSPGY on the front wall of the house indicating the name of the beneficiaries, year of sanction and unit cost, etc. after which the 4th installment will be released.
   Funds will be credited to the beneficiary account through Direct Account transfer using Public Financial Management System (PFMS). For more information, please refer to: Guideline: https://bocboard.labdirodisha.gov.in/Building/homecontent/NSPGY/NSPGY_11-01-18_300.pdf Amendment: https://bocboard.labdirodisha.gov.in/Building/homecontent/NSPGY/NSPGY_02-05-18_3412.pdf Website: https://bocboard.labdirodisha.gov.in/Building/ Definition: https://nirmanshramik.odisha.gov.in/obocwwb/public/downloadAct Tags associated with the scheme include: Construction Worker, Direct Benefit Transfer, Financial Assistance, House, Pucca Ghar.