The name of this welfare scheme is The Andaman & Nicobar Islands Widow Pension Scheme. It is also known as ANIWPS. The scheme “The Andaman &amp;amp; Nicobar Islands Widow Pension Scheme” is implemented by the Directorate of Social Welfare, Union Territory of Andaman and Nicobar Islands to provide financial assistance to poor and destitute widows in the Andaman and Nicobar Islands. The beneficiary shall cease to receive the assistance if she gets remarried or becomes financially independent afterward, which may be divulged by due enquiry or through records. The scheme targets beneficiaries such as Individual. It is specifically implemented in Andaman and Nicobar Islands. The implementing agency is Directorate Of Social Welfare, Union Territory Of Andaman And Nicobar Islands. Additionally, the nodal department is Social Welfare Department.

The scheme provides the following benefits: The quantum of Widow Allowance shall be ₹2500/per month subject to eligibility.
   Payment of allowance shall be made through the Bank Account on a monthly basis.

Eligibility criteria include: The applicant should be a permanent resident of the Union Territory of Andaman and Nicobar Islands or have resided in the Union Territory of Andaman and Nicobar Islands for more than 10 years at the time of making the application.
   The applicant should be a poor widow.
   The household income of the applicant does not exceed ₹4000/per month.
   The applicant should not be availing of any other financial assistance or grant from the government or any other source.
   The applicant shall cease to receive the assistance if she gets remarried or becomes financially independent afterward, which may be divulged by due enquiry or through records. The application process is as follows: Step 01: The application form shall be available free of cost at the Directorate of Social Welfare, Port Blair, and the subdivisional offices of Child Development Project Officers (CDPOs). Also, the application form can be downloaded from the official website.
Step 02: The completely filled application form along with all the relevant documents shall be submitted in the office of the concerned Child Development Project Officer. For more information, please refer to: Official Website: http://andssw1.and.nic.in/socialwelfare/ Notification: http://andssw1.and.nic.in/socialwelfare/pdf/widownotif.pdf Application Form: http://andssw1.and.nic.in/socialwelfare/pdf/allowances_form.pdf Tags associated with the scheme include: Financial Assistance, Pension, Poor, Widow, Woman.