The name of this welfare scheme is Feed The Seed. It is also known as Feed The Seed. The &quot;Feed for Seed&quot; program is an initiative launched by the Government of Telangana in India, aimed at promoting agriculture and supporting farmers in the state. The program is designed to encourage farmers to produce their own seeds by providing them with free, high-quality seeds of various crops.


Under this program, farmers are provided with a seed kit containing seeds of various crops, including vegetables, pulses, cereals, and oilseeds. The kit also contains instructions on how to grow and harvest the crops, as well as guidelines on seed production and storage.


The program is based on the concept of &quot;Seed Village&quot; where farmers can produce high-quality seeds and sell them in the market. The program encourages the use of sustainable agricultural practices such as crop rotation, organic farming, and conservation of traditional crop varieties.


The aim of the Feed for Seed program is to increase the availability of high-quality seeds at affordable prices, promote sustainable agriculture practices, and empower farmers to become self-sufficient in seed production. The program has been widely appreciated and has helped many farmers in Telangana to improve their income and livelihoods.




Scheme deliverable
Farmers with livestock provide livestock types such as PC-23, SSG, stylized, lucerne and African Tall, such as 75% subsidy.


The animals are the buffalo, the cows, the sheep. Farmers have the right to take grass seeds.
2pi C. 23, SSG, African Tall, Steele Hamata, Lucerne, etc. The seeds of 75% subsidy will be distributed.
Who is eligible: Who is Not eligible:
Farmers with livestock farming are eligible for seed production.
In order to provide livestock seeds, farmers have to hit own land or leased land or public places to increase agricultural land with animal farming..
Cattle, buffalo, cows, and sheep Farmers have the right to take grass seeds.
Grass seeds should be provided by the farmers in the area. Own land or lease land.
Who is not deserving:
No livestock farmers are eligible for the scheme.
Owners of land/lease land and livestock are not eligible. The scheme targets beneficiaries such as Individual. It is specifically implemented in Telangana. The implementing agency is Department Of Agriculture And Cooperation In Collaboration With The State Seed Development Corporation (SSDC). Additionally, the nodal department is Agriculture and Co-operation Department.

It falls under the categories: Agriculture,Rural & Environment.

Eligibility criteria include: Farmers with livestock farming are eligible for seed production.
In order to provide livestock seeds, farmers have to hit own land or leased land or public places to increase agricultural land with animal farming..
Cattle, buffalo, cows, sheep Farmers have the right to take grass seeds.
Grass seeds should be provided by the farmers in the area. Own land or lease land. For more information, please refer to: District Website: https://hyderabad.telangana.gov.in/scheme/feed-the-seed/ Veterinary Department: https://vahd.telangana.gov.in/Content.aspx TSSDCL Web Site: https://www.tssdcl.org/about.php Tags associated with the scheme include: Feed For Seed, Seed Village, State Seed Development Corporation.