The name of this welfare scheme is Awarding of Tamil Mamani, Telugu Ratna and Malayala Ratna. It is also known as ATMTRMR. The Arts and Culture Department of Puducherry launched the &quot;Awarding of Tamil Mamani, Telugu Ratna and Malayala Ratna&quot; scheme aims to provide cash award of ₹75, 000/- to the author/writer who has published books of high reputed in poetry, prose, and research articles in literature and grammar in their respective languages. The scheme targets beneficiaries such as Individual. It is specifically implemented in Puducherry. Additionally, the nodal department is Arts and Culture Department, Puducherry.

The scheme provides the following benefits: > Award amount:


Cash award : ₹75,000/. 



> Number of Awards:


Tamil Mamani 6 awards.
Malayala Ratna 4 awards.
Telugu Ratna 4 awards.

Eligibility criteria include: The applicant should be an author/writer.
The applicant&#39;s age should be 60 years or above. 
The author/writer should have published books of high repute in poetry, prose, and research articles in literature and grammar in their respective languages. 
The applicant should participate in literary and research.
The applicant should not have been given any such award by other Government and Organisations like Universities etc.
The applicant should be a native of Puducherry or residence in Puducherry continuously for a period of 5 years. The application process is as follows: Step 1: The interested applicant should visit (during office hours) the Department of Art and Culture and request the hard copy of the prescribed format of the application form from the staff exclusively entrusted to issue and collect filledin applications.
OR
The interested applicant downloads the application form.
Step 2: In the application form, fill in all the mandatory fields, paste the passportsized photograph (signed across, if required), and attach copies of all the mandatory documents (selfattest, if required).
Step 3: Submit the duly filled and signed application form along with the documents to the superintendent, Department of Art and Culture, No.1, Roman Roland Road, Puducherry 605 Step 4: Request a receipt or acknowledgment from the superintendent to whom the application has been submitted. Ensure that the receipt contains essential details such as the date and time of submission, and a unique identification number (if applicable). For more information, please refer to: Citizens Charter: https://art.py.gov.in//sites/default/files/ecit1.pdf Official Website: https://art.py.gov.in/ Application Form: https://art.py.gov.in/sites/default/files/app100523.pdf Tags associated with the scheme include: Award, Books, Financial Assistance, Research, Senior Citizen.