The name of this welfare scheme is Providing Artificial Limbs and Other Appliances to Disabled BOC Workers. It is also known as PALOADBOCW. The &quot;Providing Artificial Limbs and Other Appliances to Disabled BOC Workers&quot; scheme was launched by the Andhra Pradesh Building &amp; Other Construction Workers Welfare Board. The scheme aims to provide artificial limbs &amp; other appliances to registered disabled construction workers to improve their quality of life by offering essential prosthetic support in collaboration with the Artificial Limbs Manufacturing Corporation of India. The scheme also covers the replacement of limbs every three years based on the workers&#39; needs. The scheme targets beneficiaries such as Individual. It is specifically implemented in Andhra Pradesh. Additionally, the nodal department is Labour Department.

The scheme provides the following benefits: Free distribution of artificial limbs and other fabricated appliances. 
Replacement of limbs every three years based on the workers&#39; needs.

Eligibility criteria include: The worker should be registered under the Andhra Pradesh Building &amp; Other Construction Workers Welfare Board.
The worker should be a disabled person. The application process is as follows: Step1: The interested applicant should visit (during office hours) the A.P. Building &amp; Other Construction Workers Welfare Board and request a hard copy of the prescribed format of the application form from the staff exclusively entrusted to issue and collect filledin applications.
Step2: In the application form, fill in all the mandatory fields, and attach copies of all the mandatory documents (selfattest, if required).
Step3: Submit the duly filled and signed application form along with the documents to the Assistant Labour Officer/Assistant Commissioner of Labour.
Step4: Request a receipt or acknowledgement from the Assistant Labour Officer/Assistant Commissioner of Labour to whom the application has been submitted. Ensure that the receipt contains essential details such as the date and time of submission, and a unique identification number (if applicable). For more information, please refer to: Guidelines: https://apbocwwb.ap.nic.in/APBOCWW3/G.o_15.pdf Official Website: https://apbocwwb.ap.nic.in/apbocwwbhome.jsp Tags associated with the scheme include: Artificial Limbs, Construction Worker, Fabricated Appliances, Person With Disability.