The name of this welfare scheme is Innovation In Science Pursuit For Inspired Research (INSPIRE) - Faculty Fellowship. It is also known as INSPIRE-FF. The &quot;INSPIRE FACULTY FELLOWSHIP&quot; component provides opportunities to 100 persons every year with Ph.D. qualifications in the age group of 27-32 years for 5 years to carry out research in both basic and applied science areas including engineering, medicine, agriculture, and veterinary sciences for establishing themselves as independent researchers. It grants an attractive fellowship for a duration of 5 years. The objective of the scheme is to encourage young researchers to continue research in areas of S&amp;T, Medicine, Agriculture, Pharmacy, and Veterinary Sciences.


Purpose
1. To provide attractive opportunities for young achievers for developing independent scientific profiles and launch them toward fulfilling long-term careers.
2. To augment high-quality scientific manpower in scientific and educational institutions, especially the Central and State universities.
3. While vertical migration from the other INSPIRE components would be encouraged, the faculty fellowship component also provides the opportunity to meritorious candidates for lateral entry into INSPIRE scheme.
4. INSPIRE Faculty Fellowship provides an opportunity to post-doctoral fellows for carrying out independent research however does not guarantee a regular position after 5 years. The scheme targets beneficiaries such as Individual. Additionally, the nodal ministry is Ministry Of Science And Technology and the nodal department is Department Of Science & Technology.

The scheme provides the following benefits: > Amount


Each selected INSPIRE Faculty Fellow will be eligible to receive a consolidated amount of ₹1,25,000/per month as a fellowship with an annual increment of ₹2,000/. 
In addition, a Research Grant of ₹7,00,000 every year for 5 years will also be provided to each successful candidate including the carryforward amount, if any, from the previous year. 
The consolidated amount of ₹1,25,000/per month is an allinclusive fellowship and taxable as per the Indian IT Act.



> Duration


The INSPIRE Faculty Fellowship is for a maximum period of 5 (five) years.

Eligibility criteria include: > Essential


Indian citizens and People of Indian origin with PIO status having Ph.D. degrees (in science, mathematics, engineering, pharmacy, medicine, and agriculturerelated subjects) from any recognized university in the world.
Candidates should possess a minimum of 60% (or equivalent CGPA) marks throughout their academic profile starting from the Senior Secondary Examination (Class 12 onwards).
Those that have submitted their Ph.D. theses and are awaiting the award of their degree shall also be eligible. However, selection for the Fellowship will be confirmed only after the Ph.D. degree is awarded.
The upper age limit as of 1st January of the respective year of advertisement, is 32 years for General Category. However, for SC, ST, and Women candidates, the upper age limit will be 37 years. For persons with benchmark disabilities (Divyangjan with not less than 40 percent of a specified disability), the upper age limit will be 42 years.
Publication(s) in highly reputed journals demonstrating the outstanding research potential of the candidate.
Candidates who are employed in regular/contractual positions within India may also apply for INSPIRE Faculty Fellowship for improvement and enhancement in their career prospects but, upon selection, the candidates will need to resign (no lien or deputation or any type of leave would be accepted) from the current job and organization before taking up the INSPIRE Faculty Fellowship. 
Candidates, who get selected for regular positions in any institute/university after submission of the IFF application, would be entitled to receive the Research Grant only as INSPIRE Faculty Fellows.



> Desirable


Candidates who are within the top 1% in Class 12 examination, IITJEE rank holders, 1st rank holders either in graduation or postgraduation level university examinations. The application process is as follows: > Mode of Application


Eligible candidates need to submit applications ONLINE through the portal of INSPIRE program only. No other mode of submission of the application is permitted.
To apply ONLINE, please visit the website and follow the process described therein. After the successful submission of the application online, the candidate may obtain a printout of the application and keep it for his/her personal reference.


> Method of Selection


The Indian National Science Academy (INSA), New Delhi, in coordination with DST, is implementing this INSPIRE Faculty Fellowship Scheme up to the stage of recommendation of candidates for INSPIRE Faculty Fellowship.
A threetier selection process, viz. evaluation by disciplinebased Expert Committees, followed by the recommendations of the Apex Level Committee and INSPIRE Faculty Award Council. Based on the recommendations of these Committees, DST makes the final selection. For more information, please refer to: Guidelines: https://online-inspire.gov.in/Content/GuideLine/FacultyFellowshipGuidelines.pdf FAQs: https://online-inspire.gov.in/Content/FAQsFacultyfellowship.pdf Call For Applications (2023): https://online-inspire.gov.in/Account/OpenDocument?documentId=9ryqi2f8nTXWOAP%2BtQrybw%3D%3D User Manual Of The Registration And Application Process: https://www.online-inspire.gov.in/readwritedata/template/FacultyTemplate/FacultyScheme_Guidelines.pdf Tags associated with the scheme include: Faculty, Fellowship, PhD, Research, Science.