The name of this welfare scheme is Mukhyamantri Rajya Nirashrit Mahila Samman Pension Yojana. It is also known as MRNMSPY. Launched by the Department of Women, Child Development &amp;amp; Social Security, Government of Jharkhand, “Mukhyamantri Rajya Nirashrit Mahila Samman Pension Yojana ” aims  to provide social security to women who are unable to sustain themselves with their own resources and are in need of financial assistance. It is a Direct Benefit Transfer (DBT) scheme, so the pension amount will be directly transferred to the bank account of the beneficiary. The scheme targets beneficiaries such as Individual. It is specifically implemented in Jharkhand. Additionally, the nodal department is Women, Child Development & Social Security Department.

The scheme provides the following benefits: Amount: ₹ 1,000/per month to the eligible beneficiary.

Eligibility criteria include: The applicant should be a permanent resident of Jharkhand.
The applicant should have attained the age of 18 years or more.
The applicant must belong to any of the following.


A woman whose husband has died.
An abandoned woman.
Single Woman aged 45 years or more.


The applicant should have a Voter ID card and Aadhar Card.
The applicant should not be a beneficiary under any other Social Security pension scheme.
The applicant should not be retired or permanently employed in Central and State Government or in public sector undertakings.
The applicant or their spouse should not be a recipient of any family pension or pension from Central and State Government or from public sector undertakings.
Applicant’s family is not an income tax payee. The application process is as follows: Step 01: The interested applicant should request the prescribed format of the application from the office of Block Development Officer (BDO) / Sub Divisional Officer (SDO) / Circle Officer
Step 02: In the application form, fill in all the mandatory fields, and attach copies of all the mandatory documents (selfattest, if required).
Step 03: Submit the duly filled and signed application form along with the documents to the concerned authority at:

Office of the BDO in rural areas.
Office of the SDO or Circle Officer in Municipalities and notified areas. For more information, please refer to: Guidelines: https://www.jharkhand.gov.in/PDepartment/ViewDocument?id=D031DO00628062023124410458 Tags associated with the scheme include: Direct Benefit Transfer, Old Age, Pension, Women Senior Citizen.