The name of this welfare scheme is Financial Assistance to Former Sports Person of UP. It is also known as FAFSPUP. The scheme “Financial Assistance to Former Sports Person of UP” was launched by the Department of Sports, Government of Uttar Pradesh to provide financial assistance to sports persons who are old, weak, or facing hardships, under a scheme for the welfare of sports person of the state. Financial assistance is provided to such old sports persons who had brought glory to the name of the state in their youth with their sports performance. The scheme targets beneficiaries such as Individual. It is specifically implemented in Uttar Pradesh. The implementing agency is Department Of Sports, Government Of Uttar Pradesh. Additionally, the nodal department is Sports Department, Uttar Pradesh.

The scheme provides the following benefits: The following financial assistance will be provided under the scheme:

  Statelevel sports persons who have represented the official team of the state: ₹2,000/per month  National level sports persons who have represented the official national team: ₹3,000/per month  International level sports persons who were members of the official national team and represented the country in the Olympics, Commonwealth, Asian games, and World Cup tournaments: ₹5,000/per month  The sports persons awarded with the Arjun award, Dronacharya award, and Khel Ratna award or the sports persons awarded with Padma Shree and Padma Bhushan based on their achievements in the sports field: ₹20,000/per month

Eligibility criteria include: The sportsperson should be a domicile of Uttar Pradesh.
   The sports persons who are old, weak, or facing hardships and whose monthly income from all sources is not more than ₹10,000/are eligible to apply under the scheme. The application process is as follows: Step 01: To avail of the benefit of this scheme, the applicant can download the application form from the official website of the Department of Sports, Government of Uttar Pradesh.
Step 02: The applicant needs to fill out the application form completely.
Step 03: The duly filled application form along with necessary supporting documents has to be submitted to the respective sports officer of the concerned district. For more information, please refer to: Official Website: https://upsports.gov.in/pages/en/enmenu/e-citizen/policies/financial-aid/en-10-renowned-sportsperons Application Form: https://upsports.gov.in/site/writereaddata/siteContent/department/201608101230027577sports_2.pdf Tags associated with the scheme include: Financial Assistance, Sports, Sports Person.