The name of this welfare scheme is Incentive Award to Inter-Caste Married Couples. It is also known as IAICMC. The scheme “Incentive Award to Inter-Caste Married Couples” was introduced by the Adi Dravidar Welfare Department, Government of Puducherry. The objective of the scheme is to reduce the effect of untouchability and as a step towards bringing about a casteless society. The scheme targets beneficiaries such as Family. It is specifically implemented in Puducherry. Additionally, the nodal department is Adi Dravidar Welfare Department, Puducherry.

The scheme provides the following benefits: An award with a value of ₹ 50,000/(₹ 20,000/ in cash, and ₹ 30,000/in the form of a National Saving Certificate).

Eligibility criteria include: The bride and groom should be citizens of India.
The marriage should be performed between Scheduled Caste and other communities. 
The marriage should be registered.
The marriage should be taking place for the first time between the bride and groom.
Both bride and groom or either of them should be a native of Puducherry.
The application should be submitted within 60 days from the date of performance of marriage. The application process is as follows: Step 1: Visit the Official Website of the eDistrict Portal of the Government of Puducherry.
Step 2: At the top right corner of the home page, click &quot;Login&quot;. In the login screen, click &quot;Register a New Membership&quot;.
Step 3: On the Registration Page, fill in all the mandatory fields: Username, Password, Confirm Password, Personal Details (Full Name, First Name, Email Address, Address, Current Address, Gender, Date of Birth, Mobile Number). Agree to the declaration. Fill in the Captcha Code, and click &quot;Signup&quot;.
Step 4: Visit the Official Website of the eDistrict Portal of the Government of Puducherry.
Step 5: At the top right corner of the home page, click &quot;Login&quot;. In the login screen, provide your Username and Password, fill in the Captcha Code, and click &quot;Sign In&quot;.
Step 6: On the next screen, a list of schemes by the Government of Puducherry will be displayed Departmentwise.
Step 7: Click on the scheme you wish to apply for. You will be taken to its online application form.
Step 8: In the application form, fill in all the mandatory fields (marked with a red asterisk) and upload all the mandatory documents (selfattest if required). 
Step 9: Tick the declaration stating &quot;I hereby declare that the abovementioned details are true and correct as per the best of my Knowledge&quot;. Submit the application and note the application number for tracking your application. The application number will also be received on your Registered Mobile Number / Registered Email ID.
Track Your Application here
 Access the User Manual for Online Application here Step 1: The interested applicant should visit (during office hours) the Office/ SubOffice of the Adi Dravidar Welfare and Scheduled Tribes Welfare Department, and request the hard copy of the prescribed format of the application form from the staff exclusively entrusted to issue and collect filledin applications.
Step 2: In the application form, fill in all the mandatory fields, paste the passportsized photograph (signed across, if required), and attach copies of all the mandatory documents (selfattest, if required).
Step 3: Submit the duly filled and signed application form along with the documents to the concerned authority.
Step 4: Request a receipt or acknowledgment from the concerned authority to whom the application has been submitted. Ensure that the receipt contains essential details such as the date and time of submission, and a unique identification number (if applicable). For more information, please refer to: Guidelines: https://py.gov.in/sites/default/files/adwincentive-award-inter-caste-married-couples.pdf Citizen's Charter: https://py.gov.in/sites/default/files/citizencharter-adidravidar.pdf Contact Us: https://adwelfare.py.gov.in/contact-us Grievance Redressal: https://wcd.py.gov.in/ta/central-public-grievance-redress-and-monitoring-system Track Application Status: https://edistrict.py.gov.in/User/TrackApplication.aspx Tags associated with the scheme include: Bride, Financial Assistance, Groom, Intercaste, Marriage, Scheduled Caste.