The name of this welfare scheme is Pradhan Mantri Fasal Bima Yojna. It is also known as PMFBY. Objective: The PMFBY works on the One Nation, One Crop, One Premium. To provide insurance coverage and financial support to the farmers in the event of failure of any of the notified crops as a result of natural calamities, pests &amp;amp; diseases.

  - To stabilize the income of farmers to ensure their continuance in farming.
  - To encourage farmers to adopt innovative and modern agricultural practices.
  - To ensure the flow of credit to the agriculture sector.

&lt;br&gt;

Implementation Agency
The Scheme shall be implemented through a multi-agency framework by selected insurance companies under the overall guidance &amp;amp; control of the Department of Agriculture, Cooperation &amp;amp; Farmers Welfare (DAC&amp;amp;FW), Ministry of Agriculture &amp;amp; Farmers Welfare (MoA&amp;amp;FW), Government of India (GOI) and the concerned State in co-ordination with various other agencies; viz Financial Institutions like Commercial Banks, Co-operative Banks, Regional Rural Banks and their regulatory bodies, Government Departments viz. Agriculture, Co-operation, Horticulture, Statistics, Revenue, Information/Science &amp;amp; Technology, Panchayati Raj etc
&lt;br&gt;

Notified Area: Notified Area is the Unit of Insurance decided by the State Govt. for notifying a Crop during a season. 
&lt;br&gt;

Risks to be covered : 

   1. Yield Losses: Comprehensive risk insurance is provided to cover yield losses due to non-preventable risks, such as
    - Natural Fire and Lightning
    - Storms, Hailstorms, Cyclones, Typhoons, Tempest, Hurricanes, Tornados, etc.
    - Flood, Inundation, and Landslide
    - Drought, Dry spells
    - Pests/ Diseases etc.

   1. Prevented Sowing  (on notified area basis):- In cases where the majority of the insured farmers of a notified area, having the intent to sow/plant and incurred expenditure for the purpose, are prevented from sowing/planting the insured crop due to adverse weather conditions, shall be eligible for indemnity claims upto a maximum of 25% of the sum insured   1. Post-Harvest Losses (individual farm basis): Coverage is available upto a maximum period of 14 days from harvesting for those crops which are kept in “cut &amp;amp; spread” condition to dry in the field after harvesting, against specific perils of cyclone / cyclonic rains, unseasonal rains throughout the country.    1. Localized Calamities (individual farm basis): Loss/damage resulting from the occurrence of identified localized risks i.e. hailstorm, landslide, and Inundation affecting isolated farms in the notified area. The scheme targets beneficiaries such as Individual. Additionally, the nodal ministry is Ministry Of Agriculture and Farmers Welfare.

The scheme provides the following benefits: The benefits of this scheme are mentioned as under: 

Comprehensive insurance coverage for Kharif and Rabi crops.
Add on the coverage available for specific circumstances.
Optional for farmers, both loanee and nonloanee.
Stability in the income of farmers so that they can continue farming.

Premium Rate :
S. No.SeasonCropsMaximum Insurance charges payable by the farmer (% of Sum Insured)1KharifFood &amp;amp;amp;amp; Oilseeds crops (all cereals, millets, &amp;amp;amp;amp; oilseeds, pulses)0% of SI or Actuarial rate,  whichever is less2RabiFood &amp;amp;amp;amp; Oilseeds crops (all cereals, millets, &amp;amp;amp;amp; oilseeds, pulses)5% of SI or Actuarial rate, whichever is less3Kharif &amp;amp;amp;amp; RabiAnnual Commercial / Annual Horticultural crops5% of SI or Actuarial rate, whichever is less

The difference between the premium rate and the rate of Insurance charges payable by farmers shall be treated as Rate of Normal Premium Subsidy, which shall be shared equally by the Centre and State.

Eligibility criteria include: The farmer must be a cultivator or a sharecropper on the insured land.
Farmers must have a valid and authenticated land ownership certificate or a valid land tenancy agreement.
The farmer must have applied for insurance coverage within the prescribed time frame, which is generally within 2 weeks of the start of the sowing season.
They must not have received any compensation for the same crop loss from any other source.
The farmer should have a valid bank account and provide details of their bank account, along with a valid identity proof, at the time of enrollment
All farmers growing notified crops in a notified area during the season who have an insurable interest in the crop are eligible. The application process is as follows: How to Apply 

Applicant farmers have to visit the official portal.Click on Farmer Corner
If the applicants do not have an account on the portal, click on Guest Farmer. Fill in all the details correctly and click on submit. An account will be created.
Fill out the form in the insurance scheme and provide the required details



How to Claim?

In case of crop loss, farmers are required to file a claim with the insurance company within the prescribed time frame, which is generally within 72 hours of the occurrence of the loss.
List of concerned person/company details on the portal and click in &quot;Report Crop Loss&quot; or download the app and report crop loss.The claim must be accompanied by supporting documents, such as photographs of the damaged crop and a report from the villagelevel committee (VLC) or the agriculture department. For more information, please refer to: PMFBY Official Website: https://pmfby.gov.in/ PMFBY Latest Guidelines: https://pmfby.gov.in/pdf/Revamped%20Operational%20Guidelines_17th%20August%202020.pdf  Details In Hindi: https://pmfby.gov.in/pdf/Hindi.pdf Tags associated with the scheme include: Crop Insurance, Farmers, Kharif, Rabi.