The name of this welfare scheme is Spices Development Ginger, Turmeric, Black Pepper, Cardamom, Coriander, Cinnamon and Chillies. It is also known as SDGTBPCCCC. The scheme “Spices Development Ginger, Turmeric, Black Pepper, Cardamom, Coriander, Cinnamon, and Chillies” was launched by the Department of Agriculture &amp;amp; Farmers’ Welfare, Government of Meghalaya to encourage farmers to produce good quality and diseased free planting materials and to grow improved varieties of high yielding spices. The scheme targets beneficiaries such as Individual. It is specifically implemented in Meghalaya. Additionally, the nodal department is Agriculture Department.

The scheme provides the following benefits: > Pattern of Assistance:

The produce from the Government Farm, Umsning are sold directly to the growers through District Horticulture Officers / Implementing Officers at full rate.

Eligibility criteria include: The applicant/farmer should be a permanent resident of Meghalaya.
   The applicant should be a bonafide farmer engaged in agriculture.
   The applicant should possess their own or leased land of at least 2 (hectares) or more.

Note: The applicant farmer can avail of the benefits of the scheme on a first come first serve basis. The application process is as follows: &gt; Application Process:

Step 01: The eligible bonafide farmer can apply/write an application on plain paper.
Step 02: Along with the application, attach copies of all the mandatory documents (selfattest, if required).
Step 03: Submit the duly filled and signed application along with the documents at your nearest office of the Horticulture Development Officer of a CD Block/ Horticulture Circle.
> Mode of Selection of Beneficiary(s):

The bonafide farmers shall be selected on a first come first serve basis.
> Whom to Contact:

District Horticulture Officer
Horticulture Development Officer For more information, please refer to: Official Website: https://megagriculture.gov.in/PUBLIC/schemes_ShowSchemesH.aspx?schid=101 FAQs: https://megagriculture.gov.in/PUBLIC/dwd_docs/FAQONHORTICULTURESCHEMES.pdf Tags associated with the scheme include: Black Pepper, Cardamom, Chillies, Cinnamon, Coriander, Farmer, Ginger, Horticulture, Spices, Turmeric.