The name of this welfare scheme is Supply of Radio to the Blind Persons. It is also known as SRBP. The scheme “Supply of Radio to the Blind Persons&quot; was launched by the Department of Social Welfare, Government of Puducherry. In this scheme, a radio is provided to the blind person for recreation. In order to be eligible, the applicant should have disability of 40% or above, and should be a Native/Resident of the Union Territory of Puducherry for at least 5 years. The scheme targets beneficiaries such as Individual. It is specifically implemented in Puducherry. Additionally, the nodal department is Social Welfare Department, Puducherry.

The scheme provides the following benefits: A radio is provided to the blind person for recreation.

Eligibility criteria include: The applicant should be a Native/Resident of the Union Territory of Puducherry for at least 5 years.
The applicant should be blind.
The applicant should have disability of 40% or above.
The annual income of the applicant should not exceed ₹ 75,000/. The application process is as follows: Step 1: The interested applicant should visit (during office hours) the Office/ SubOffice of the Department of Social Welfare, and request the hard copy of the prescribed format of the application form from the staff exclusively entrusted to issue and collect filledin applications.
OR
The interested applicant should take print of the prescribed format of the application form.
Step 2: In the application form, fill in all the mandatory fields, paste the passportsized photograph (signed across, if required), and attach copies of all the mandatory documents (selfattest, if required).
Step 3: Submit the duly filled and signed application form along with the documents to the authority given below Puducherry: The Deputy Director, Differently Abled Section, Directorate of Social Welfare. Karaikal: The Assistant Director, Social Welfare Department (Sub Office).Mahe / Yanam: The Welfare Officer (i\c), Social Welfare Department (Sub Office). 
Step 4: Request a receipt or acknowledgement from the concerned authority to whom the application has been submitted. Ensure that the receipt contains essential details such as the date and time of submission, and a unique identification number (if applicable). For more information, please refer to: Guidelines: https://socwelfare.py.gov.in/supply-radio-blind-persons Contact Us: https://socwelfare.py.gov.in/contact-us Sub Offices: https://socwelfare.py.gov.in/sub--office-social-welfare-department Grievance Redressal: https://pgportal.gov.in/ Tags associated with the scheme include: Blind, Differently Abled, Disability, PwD.