The name of this welfare scheme is Scheme of Financial Assistance to Indigent Artists. It is also known as SOFATIA. The &quot;Scheme of Financial Assistance to Indigent Artists&quot; was launched by the Art and Culture Department, Government of Tamil Nadu. The scheme aims to provide financial assistance of ₹3,000/- per month to artists who are in indigent circumstances and their dependents. The Indigent artists who have rendered services in the field of Art and Culture during their lifetime ar eligible for this scheme. The scheme targets beneficiaries such as Individual. It is specifically implemented in Tamil Nadu. Additionally, the nodal department is Art and Culture Department.

The scheme provides the following benefits: Financial Assistance of ₹3,000/per month.

Eligibility criteria include: The applicant should be an artist.
The applicant should be in indigent circumstances.
The age of the applicant should be 58 years or above.
The applicant should have professionally served for the enrichment of one or more art disciplines such as music, dance, drama, film folk arts, etc.
The annual income of the applicant or their legal spouse should not exceed ₹12,000/. The application process is as follows: The advertisement is published in the newspapers, calling for applications by the Tamil Nadu Eyal Isai Nataka Manram.
Step 1: The interested applicant should visit (during office hours) the Revenue Divisional Officer/ Sub Collector and request a hard copy of the prescribed format of the application form from the concerned staff.
Step 2: In the application form, fill in all the mandatory fields, paste the passportsized photograph (signed across, if required), and attach copies of all the mandatory documents (selfattest, if required).
Step 3: Submit the duly filled and signed application form along with the documents to the Revenue Divisional Officer/ Sub Collector.
Step 4: Request a receipt or acknowledgement from the concerned authority to whom the application has been submitted. Ensure that the receipt contains essential details such as the date and time of submission, and a unique identification number (if applicable).
Step 5: The Revenue Divisional Officer/ Sub Collector will send the duly filledin application to the Regional Assistant Director of Art and Culture at Kanchipuram/ Thanjavur/ Madurai/ Tiruchirappalli/ Tirunelveli/ Salem. For more information, please refer to: Guidelines: https://www.tn.gov.in/rti/proactive/inftour/handbook_artculture.pdf Revised Rate: https://artandculture.tn.gov.in/schemes-implemented-tamil-nadu-eyal-isai-nataka-mandram Tags associated with the scheme include: Art, Artist, Financial Assistance, Indigent.