The name of this welfare scheme is Matrimonial Incentives. It is also known as MI-MAHA. The &quot;Matrimonial Incentives&quot; is a scheme by the Department of Social Justice &amp; Special Assistance, Govt. of Maharashtra. In this scheme, if a Person with Disability (PwD) gets married to a non-disabled person, then the couple is provided a marriage incentive of up to ₹ 50,000. Only citizens who are permanent residents of the state of Maharashtra are eligible to apply for this scheme. This scheme is 100% funded by the Govt. of Maharashtra. The scheme targets beneficiaries such as Individual. It is specifically implemented in Maharashtra. The implementing agency is District Social Welfare Offices Of The Department Of Social Justice & Special Assistance, Govt. Of Maharashtra. Additionally, the nodal department is Social Justice and Special Assistance Department.

The scheme provides the following benefits: The eligible couple will get up to ₹ 50,000/as financial assistance. The nature of financial assistance is as below –

Saving Certificate of ₹ 25,000/.
₹ 20,000/in cash.
₹ 4,500/in the form of household utility.
₹ 500/to attend the marriage incentive program.

Eligibility criteria include: The applicant should be a citizen of India.
The applicant should be a permanent resident of Maharashtra State.
The applicant should be a Person with Disability (Visually Handicapped, Low Vision, Hearing Impaired, Orthopedically Handicapped, etc).
The percentage of the disability should be 40% or above.
The applicant should have been married to a nondisabled person. The application process is as follows: Step 1: Visit the District Social Welfare Office, and request a hard copy of the format of the application form for the scheme from the concerned authority.
Step 2: In the application form, fill in all the mandatory fields, paste the passportsized photograph (signed across), and attach all the (selfattested) mandatory documents.
Step 3: Submit the duly filled and signed application form along with the documents to the District Social Welfare Office.
Step 4: Acquire the receipt/acknowledgment of the successful submission of the application form from the District Social Welfare Office. For more information, please refer to: Guidelines: https://sjsa.maharashtra.gov.in/en/scheme-category/disability-welfare?&Submit=Submit District Social Welfare Office: https://sjsa.maharashtra.gov.in/en/contacts Tags associated with the scheme include: Financial Assistance, Incentive, Marriage, Person With Disability, Social Welfare.