The name of this welfare scheme is Ramanujan Fellowship. It is also known as RF. &amp;quot;Ramanujan Fellowship&amp;quot; is meant for brilliant Indian scientists and engineers from outside India to take up scientific research positions in India, those Indian scientists/engineers who want to return to India from abroad. The fellowship is scientist-specific and very selective. The Ramanujan Fellows could work in any of the scientific institutions and universities in the country and they would be eligible for receiving regular research grants through the extramural funding schemes of various S&amp;amp;T agencies of the Government of India.
&gt; Duration of Fellowship:


  - The duration of the fellowship will be for five years, and not extendable. The scheme targets beneficiaries such as Individual. The implementing agency is Science And Engineering Research Board, Government Of India. Additionally, the nodal ministry is Ministry Of Science And Technology and the nodal department is Department Of Science & Technology.

The scheme provides the following benefits: The amount of the Fellowship will be ₹1,35,000/per month (consolidated including HRA).
   Each Fellow will, in addition, receive a research grant of ₹00 lakh per annum (for consumables, travel, research personnel &amp;amp; contingencies, etc.) and ₹60,000/per annum as overhead charges.
   The Ramanujan Fellows will be eligible to receive regular research grants through the extramural funding schemes of various S&amp;amp;T agencies of the Government of India.

Eligibility criteria include: The fellowship is open to brilliant Indian scientists and engineers from all over the world who are below the age of 40 years, who want to return to India from abroad.
   The applicant should possess a higher degree or equivalent, such as a Ph.D. in Science/Engineering, Master in Engineering or Technology/MD in Medicine, etc., and have adequate professional experience.
   These Fellowships are very selective and only those who have a proven/outstanding track record as evident from their research publications and recognitions would be eligible.
   In case a fellow is offered a permanent position, he/she will be ineligible for the fellowship.
   This fellowship is meant for working in new areas and laboratories in order to expand their research capabilities, other than the one, where the candidate has obtained his/her doctorate degree.
   Nominations from the Ph.D. guides of the candidate and nominations from the same institute where they opted for their Ph.D, will not be considered.
   The age of the candidate should not be more than 40 years.
   The candidate should be working abroad at the time of his nomination for the fellowship.
   The Fellowship is only for those scientists who are not holding any permanent/tenure track/contractual position in any Indian Institute/University.

Note: In case the selected fellow gets any position such as permanent, tenure track, or contractual position, he/she, will become ineligible for receiving fellowship including a research grant and overhead under the fellowship, and has to relinquish the Ramanujan fellowship in total. The application process is as follows: > Methodology for Nomination &amp; Selection:

Step 01: The scientists can choose to work at any S&amp;amp;T Institution including University Departments or other Academic Institutions and National Laboratories in India, provided the Institution at which they wish to pursue research is willing to provide the necessary administrative and R&amp;amp;D basic infrastructural support to facilitate research. 
Step 02: Individual Scientists and Technologists should approach the Institutions of his/her choice to host them for the fellowship and forward their nominations to SERB for the fellowship.
Step 03: Selection of Ramanujan Fellows will be made periodically by an empowered SearchcumSelection Committee specially appointed for the purpose.
Note 01: Ramanujan Fellowship nominations are accepted throughout the year.
Note 02: This fellowship is meant for working in new areas and laboratories in order to expand their research capabilities, other than the one, where the candidate has obtained his/her doctorate degree. 
Note 03: Nominations from Ph.D. guides of the candidate and nominations from the same institute where they opted for their Ph.D, will not be considered.
&gt; Online Application Procedure:

Step 01: The Nominee needs to register in the SERB online portal, www.serbonline.in,  click here to register.
Step 02: After login, the Nominee needs to fill in all the mandatory fields in the Profile Details section under User Profile which includes Photo, Institution, Address, etc.
Step 03: Under Form Submission, choose Scheme: Ramanujan Fellowship, and fill out the Ramanujan Fellowship nomination form which includes details of Nominee Details, Qualification Details, Nominator Details, etc.
Step 04: Proposed area of research and a brief outline of the proposal of the Nominee to be uploaded in a single PDF file not more than 5 pages.
Step 05: After filling in the details, the Nominee should click on &amp;quot;Send to Nominator&amp;quot;.
Step 06: Nominators will receive intimation via email with a link to the SERB online portal, to view the filledin Ramanujan Fellowship Nomination form.
Step 07: The nominator can choose to submit the nomination to SERB or resend the form to the Nominee for any revision.
Step 08: Once submitted, the Nominee and Nominator will receive an intimation regarding the successful submission.
&gt; Contact Details:

Member Secretary:
Dr. Jacob V.V.
Science and Engineering Research Board
3rd &amp;amp; 4th Floor, Block II, Technology Bhavan, New Mehrauli Road,
New Delhi110016
Tel: +911126552216, Email: jacob@nic.in
Program Coordinator:
Dr. Shashi Bhushan Pandey, Scientist &amp;#39;G&amp;#39; For more information, please refer to: Official Website: https://www.serbonline.in/SERB/HomePage#aboutus Guidelines: https://www.serbonline.in/SERB/Ramanujan_fellowship?HomePage=New Fellowship Details: https://serb.gov.in/page/awards_fellowship#Ramanujan%20Fellowship Registration Portal: https://www.serbonline.in/SERB/Registration Tags associated with the scheme include: Engineer, Fellow, Fellowship, Ramanujan, Science, Scientist.