The name of this welfare scheme is ICAR Emeritus Professor. It is also known as ICAR EP. The ICAR floated the Scheme of Emeritus Professor in order to provide an opportunity to the superannuated teachers/ Scientists of universities, colleges and institutions under the ICAR-AU System who have been actively engaged in teaching/ training and research programmes of the State Agricultural Universities/CAUs/ICAR Deemed Universities/ Central Universities with Agricultural faculty in the preceding years to undertake teaching, other related activities, student research guidance and developing instructional material/ Text Books including e-learning resources for use in the national agricultural education programme and distance education.


The ICAR Emeritus Professor Scheme is a structural method of tapping the brain and Skill Bank of the outstanding superannuated professionals of the National Agricultural Research and Education ystem (NARES) by utilizing their talent in teaching courses and uses their experience in addressing nationally important policy issues. Retired teachers/scientists may often be in a position to teach and work in economically and ecologically underprivileged regions. Hence, their expertise should be mobilized for launching a movement in science for remedying imbalances in available faculty positions for imparting higher agricultural education. The ICAR Emeritus Professor Scheme aims to utilize the talent and services of outstanding superannuated scientists/ teachers from NARES in teaching UG/ PG courses, other related activities, student research guidance and developing instructional material/ Text Books including e-learning resources for use in the national agricultural education programme and distance education. The scheme targets beneficiaries such as Individual. The implementing agency is Indian Council Of Agricultural Research. Additionally, the nodal ministry is Ministry Of Agriculture and Farmers Welfare and the nodal department is Department of Agriculture Research and Education.

It falls under the categories: Skills & Employment.

Eligibility criteria include: The following criteria will be taken into consideration for the selection of an Emeritus Professor: 
The applicant should be an outstanding superannuated teacher/Scientist with a good record of published work and teaching/ training experience of a minimum of 5 years. 


The ICAR Emeritus Professor can work under this scheme up to the age of 70 years or up to three years, whichever is earlier.


The teacher/Professor who is to retire in the next 12 months time is eligible to apply. The application should be submitted through the Executive Authority where the Emeritus Professor proposes to work in the prescribed Proforma to the Deputy Director General (Education), ICAR. The maximum age limit for applying for ICAR. Emeritus Professor will be 65 years. Preference will be given to applicants superannuated within one year from the date of notification. The notification for filling up vacant slots will be issued depending upon the vacancies from time to time. The applications received within the period specified in the circular will only be entertained. For more information, please refer to: Guidelines: https://icar.org.in/files/reemeritusprofessor-25102016.pdf Revised Guidelines-2023: https://rlbs.icar.gov.in/Data/Inviting%20application%20of%20ICAR-Emeritus%20Professor.pdf Details: https://education.icar.gov.in/files/Final_Emeritus_Scientist_professor_Book.pdf Tags associated with the scheme include: Emeritus, ICAR, Professor, Retired.