The name of this welfare scheme is Assistance under SC/ST Prevention of Atrocities Act. It is also known as AUSCSTPAA. The scheme “Assistance under SC/ST Prevention of Atrocities Act” was introduced by the Adi Dravidar Welfare Department, Government of Puducherry. The objective of the scheme is to provide immediate relief to the victims of atrocities who are from Scheduled Castes/ Scheduled Tribes. The scheme targets beneficiaries such as Individual. It is specifically implemented in Puducherry. Additionally, the nodal department is Adi Dravidar Welfare Department, Puducherry.

The scheme provides the following benefits: Payment of Relief, Compensation for Loss, and Rehabilitation.

Eligibility criteria include: The applicant should be from a Scheduled Caste.
The applicant should have been affected by an atrocity. The application process is as follows: Step 1: The interested applicant should visit (during office hours) the Office/ SubOffice of the Adi Dravidar Welfare and Scheduled Tribes Welfare Department, and request the hard copy of the prescribed format of the application form from the staff exclusively entrusted to issue and collect filledin applications.
Step 2: In the application form, fill in all the mandatory fields, paste the passportsized photograph (signed across, if required), and attach copies of all the mandatory documents (selfattest, if required).
Step 3: Submit the duly filled and signed application form along with the documents to the concerned authority.
Step 4: Request a receipt or acknowledgment from the concerned authority to whom the application has been submitted. Ensure that the receipt contains essential details such as the date and time of submission, and a unique identification number (if applicable). For more information, please refer to: Guidelines: https://adwelfare.py.gov.in/assistance-under-scst-prevention-atrocities-act Citizen's Charter: https://py.gov.in/sites/default/files/citizencharter-adidravidar.pdf Contact Us: https://adwelfare.py.gov.in/contact-us Tags associated with the scheme include: Compensation, Rehabilitation, Relief, Scheduled Caste.