The name of this welfare scheme is Comprehensive Educational Loan Scheme - Sikkim. It is also known as CELS-S. The &quot;Comprehensive Educational Loan Scheme&quot; was launched by the Department of Personnel, and Reforms, Training, Public Grievances, Government of Sikkim. The scheme aims to provide loans free of interest for the duration of one particular course of study with one one-year moratorium period offered to all student beneficiaries and special consideration to the student belongs to the below-poverty-line family and pursuing professional courses in a recognized institution whether in India or abroad. The scheme targets beneficiaries such as Individual. It is specifically implemented in Sikkim. Additionally, the nodal department is Department Of Personnel, Administrative Reforms, Training & Public Grievances.

The scheme provides the following benefits: The maximum loan amount is ₹5,00,000/for fulltime professional courses within Sikkim
The loan amount of ₹7,50,000/for studies in India, and ₹15,00,000/for studies abroad.



Note: In case of discontinuity of studies or the loanee dies, the coapplicant shall be liable to refund the entire amount of the loan within a period not exceeding one year.

Eligibility criteria include: The applicant should be a student. 
The applicant&#39;s family annual income should not exceed ₹2,50,000/for studies within India and ₹5,00,000/for studies abroad.
The institution where the applicant wants to study, whether in India or abroad, must be recognized by the relevant authority in India.
Only one member per family shall be considered for the benefit, except in the case of Below Poverty Line (BPL) families.
Only members of Below Poverty Line (BPL) families will be considered for the study in Sikkim.



Note: Children of Government/Public Sector Undertaking employees are also eligible. The application process is as follows: Step 1: The interested applicant should visit (during office hours) the Sikkim Industrial Development &amp; Investment Corporation and request a hard copy of the prescribed format of the application form from the staff exclusively entrusted to issue and collect filledin applications.
Step 2: In the application form, fill in all the mandatory fields, and attach copies of all the mandatory documents (selfattest, if required).
Step 3: Submit the duly filled and signed application form along with the documents to the Sikkim Industrial Development &amp; Investment Corporation.
Step 4: Request a receipt or acknowledgment from the Sikkim Industrial Development &amp; Investment Corporation to whom the application has been submitted. Ensure that the receipt contains essential details such as the date and time of submission, and a unique identification number (if applicable). For more information, please refer to: Guidelines: https://sidico.in/wp-content/uploads/2021/10/DocScanner-29-Oct-2021-1.26-pm.pdf Tags associated with the scheme include: Education, Financial Assistance, Student.