The name of this welfare scheme is Junior Research Fellowship (JRF) And Research Associateship (RA) For Foreign Nationals. It is also known as JRFRAFN. INTRODUCTION 
The scheme was initiated keeping in view the political and cultural bilateral relations of India with other developing countries of Asia, Africa, and Latin America. The scheme has opened new vistas for foreign students and teachers, enabling them to come to India and undertake advanced studies and research in sciences, humanities, and social sciences in Indian Universities. 


OBJECTIVE 
The objective of the scheme is to provide an opportunity for foreign students and teachers from
developing countries to undertake advanced study and research leading to M.Phil/Ph.D. and postdoctoral research in sciences, humanities, and social sciences at Indian Universities. The scheme targets beneficiaries such as Individual. The implementing agency is University Grants Commission (UGC). Additionally, the nodal ministry is Ministry of Education and the nodal department is Department Of Higher Education.

It falls under the categories: Education & Learning.

Eligibility criteria include: Target Group: Students and teachers from developing countries of Asia/Africa and Latin America. 


For Junior Research Fellowship (JRF): 35 years for male candidates as of 1st July of the year of application and 40 years for female candidates. The candidates must have at least a highclass master’s degree with a secondclass bachelor’s degree or a secondclass master’s degree with a firstclass bachelor’s degree. 


For Research Associateship (RA): In the case of male applicants the age should be 40 years as of 1st July of the year of application, and 45 years in the case of female candidates. The candidates must have a doctorate degree, published research work to their credit, and evidence of independent research work. For more information, please refer to: Guidelines: https://www.ugc.ac.in/oldpdf/xiplanpdf/JRFSAforeignnational.pdf Tags associated with the scheme include: Fellowship, Foreign, Research.