The name of this welfare scheme is Go Green Scheme- Gujarat Labour Welfare Board. It is also known as GGS-GLWB. The “Go Green Scheme” is implemented by the Gujarat Labour Welfare Board, Labour, Skill Development &amp;amp; Employment Department, Government of Gujarat. The objective of the scheme is to encourage Labourers/Industrial Workers to purchase of battery-operated electric two-wheelers that reduce carbon emissions. It is also benefitted to Government of India&amp;#39;s &amp;quot;Green India Mission”. The scheme targets beneficiaries such as Individual. It is specifically implemented in Gujarat. The implementing agency is Gujarat Labour Welfare Board. Additionally, the nodal department is Labour and Employment Department.

The scheme provides the following benefits: Under the scheme, a subsidy will be provided to Labourers/Industrial Workers on the purchase of BatteryOperated TwoWheelers, 30% of the purchase price or ₹30,000/whichever is less.
   In addition to this, a onetime subsidy will also be provided on the RTO Registration Tax and Road Tax of the TwoWheeler.

Eligibility criteria include: Labourers/Industrial Workers should be employed in a factory/institute in the state of Gujarat.
   Labourers who have been regularly contributing to the Labour Welfare Fund will be eligible for this scheme.

Other Instruction:

   Subsidy will be given to those models which have been empanelled with FAME2 and GEDA both.
   Vehicles manufactured in India under Make in India and “Aatma Nirbhar Bharat”
   Twowheeler with a lithiumion battery that can run at least 50 km on a single charge, does not require a separate charging station, recognized under the Motor and Vehicle Act.
   Labour has to pay the residual amount after deducting the amount of subsidy from the exshowroom price.
   After sell, the amount of subsidy will be credited directly to the dealer&amp;#39;s account.
   RTO Road Tax amount will be reimbursed to the dealer. The application process is as follows: > Application Process for Scheme Benefit:

Step 01: The applicant may visit the Official Portal: https://gogreenglwb.gujarat.gov.in/
Step 02: On the home page, under the tab ‘Login to Portal’, click on ‘Please Register Here’.
Step 03: Enter all the mandatory information and then click on ‘Register’.
Step 04: After successful registration, the applicants can ‘Login’ through their User ID and Password.
Step 05: Now, update your profile by entering all the necessary details as required and click on ‘Update’.
Step 06: Select the scheme and fill out all the mandatory information in the form.
Step 07: Upload all the relevant documents, agree with the terms &amp;amp; conditions, and submit the form.
Step 08: Once the application has been submitted, an application Number is generated which can be kept for future reference.
&gt; Process to track Application Status:

Step 01: The applicant may visit the Official Portal: https://gogreenglwb.gujarat.gov.in/
Step 02: On the home page, click on ‘View Citizen Application Status’.
Step 03: Enter the Application Number and Date of Birth.
Step 04: Now click on ‘View Status’. For more information, please refer to: Official Website: https://glwb.gujarat.gov.in/go-green-scheme.htm Guidelines: https://gogreenglwb.gujarat.gov.in/indexGLWB.aspx?ServiceID=9 Scheme Details (Page No. 365): https://planning.gujarat.gov.in/images/pdf/dp-eng-22-23.pdf Online Application Portal: https://gogreenglwb.gujarat.gov.in/IndexGLWB.aspx Tags associated with the scheme include: Electric Two-wheelers, Go Green, Industrial Worker, Labour, Subsidy.