The name of this welfare scheme is Disability Aids and Appliances - Telangana. It is also known as DAAA. The &quot;Disability Aids and Appliances&quot; scheme was launched by the Telangana Building &amp; Other Construction Workers Welfare Board, LET&amp;F (Labour) Department. Telangana. The scheme aims to provide artificial limbs, wheelchairs, tricycles, and other fabricated appliances to registered construction workers who have lost limbs or sustained disabilities due to accidents. The scheme targets beneficiaries such as Individual. It is specifically implemented in Telangana. Additionally, the nodal department is Labour, Employment Training and Factories Department.

The scheme provides the following benefits: Free distribution of artificial limbs, wheelchairs/tricycles, and fabricated appliances.

Eligibility criteria include: The worker should be a registered building or construction worker with the Telangana Building and Other Construction Workers Welfare Board.
The disablement must have occurred due to an accident at the worksite or anywhere. The application process is as follows: Step1: The interested applicant visits the official website and clicks on &quot;Downloads&quot; at the top of menu options.
Step2: Now click on the download button corresponding to the scheme name.
Step3: In the application form, fill in all the mandatory fields, and attach copies of all the mandatory documents (selfattest, if required).
Step4: Submit the duly filled and signed application form along with the documents to the concerned Assistant Labour Officer.
Step5: Request a receipt or acknowledgment from the concerned authority to whom the application has been submitted. Ensure that the receipt contains essential details such as the date and time of submission, and a unique identification number (if applicable). For more information, please refer to: Guidelines: https://tbocwwb.telangana.gov.in/newsite/pdf_files/2016LETF_MS30.pdf List Of Schemes: https://tbocwwb.telangana.gov.in/new_gos.html Tags associated with the scheme include: Appliances, Artificial Limbs, Construction Worker, Differently Abled Person, Tricycle.