The name of this welfare scheme is Mukhyamantri Nirmaan Shramik Pension Sahayata. It is also known as MNSPS. Labor Department of Chhattisgarh State started this scheme &amp;amp;quot;Mukhyamantri Nirmaan Shramik Pension Sahayata&amp;amp;quot; for Building and other construction worker on 29 March 2023.. The main objective of the scheme to provides financial assistance to compensate the loss in regular income of the beneficiary due to lack of work available to him every day and to ensure smooth functioning of his livelihood. The scheme targets beneficiaries such as Individual. It is specifically implemented in Chhattisgarh. Additionally, the nodal department is Labour Department.

The scheme provides the following benefits: Pension to the Beneficiary : ₹ 1,500/per month (or)
Pension to the widow of the beneficiary: ₹ 700/per month.

Eligibility criteria include: Beneficiaries should be 60 years old or more. 
Beneficiaries must be permanent residents of Chhattisgarh.
Beneficiaries must have registered members as construction workers in the Board for 10 years.
Beneficiaries cannot receive benefits under this scheme if they are already receiving benefits from any other parallel scheme of the State/Central Government.
Registered construction workers who have availed the benefit of the Chief Minister Syan Sahayata Yojana are ineligible for this scheme.
Beneficiaries must submit a survival certificate every year in March to continue receiving the assistance amount.
If both husband and wife are registered workers and both are receiving pension benefits, only one spouse will continue to receive pension after the death of the other. Family pension will not be payable to dependents.
If both husband and wife are registered workers and the husband dies before the wife turns 60, the wife will receive family pension until she turns After turning 60, she can apply for pension under the pension scheme, and the family pension will automatically stop.
Beneficiaries have six months from the date of completing 59 years and three months to 60 years to apply for the scheme. A survival certificate must be submitted in the month when the first pension amount is to be paid. The application process is as follows: All the applicant have to visit the official website Chhattisgarh Labour Department. On the home page click on &quot;Apply&quot; under &quot;Chhattisgarh Building and Other Construction Workers Welfare Board&quot;.Enter the following details

   Select Group Name : &quot;Bhavan Evan Koi Sannirmaan&quot;
   Select Service : &quot;Yojana&quot;
   What do you want to do : &quot;Aavedan&quot;
   Click next.

Select your district name and provide old/new registration number and click next.
Select the scheme name. 
Fill out the online with required details. 
Submit. For more information, please refer to: Guidelines: https://cglabour.nic.in/BOCW/BOCADHISUCHNA/192647_08_09_2023.pdf Official Website: https://cglabour.nic.in/ Tags associated with the scheme include: Financial Assistance, Social Welfare.