The name of this welfare scheme is “Family Counseling" under Grant-in-Aid to Pondicherry State Social Welfare Board. It is also known as FC-GIAPSWB. The sub-scheme “Family Counseling&quot; under the umbrella scheme &quot;Grant-in-Aid to Pondicherry State Social Welfare Board&quot; was launched by the Department of Social Welfare, Government of Puducherry. Through this scheme, the residents of Puducherry are provided with counselling, rehabilitative and referral services. The scheme targets beneficiaries such as Family. It is specifically implemented in Puducherry. Additionally, the nodal department is Social Welfare Department, Puducherry.

The scheme provides the following benefits: Counselling, rehabilitative and referral services are provided in the centres for the victims of social problems.
Psychological, Social, Educational and Economic issues of the individuals are also dealt with.

Eligibility criteria include: The applicant should be a Native/Resident of the Union Territory of Puducherry. The application process is as follows: Step 1: The interested applicant should visit (during office hours) the Secretary, State Social Welfare Board,17, Deivasigamani Nagar, Sanjay Gandhi Nagar, Ilango Nagar, Puducherry, 605013, and request the hard copy of the prescribed format of the application form from the staff exclusively entrusted to issue and collect filledin applications.
Step 2: In the application form, fill in all the mandatory fields, paste the passportsized photograph (signed across, if required), and attach copies of all the mandatory documents (selfattest, if required).
Step 3: Submit the duly filled and signed application form and the documents to The Secretary, State Social Welfare Board.
Step 4: Request a receipt or acknowledgement from the concerned authority to whom the application has been submitted. Ensure that the receipt contains essential details such as the date and time of submission, and a unique identification number (if applicable). For more information, please refer to: Citizen's Charter: https://socwelfare.py.gov.in/sites/default/files/citizen-charter.pdf Grievance Redressal: https://pgportal.gov.in/ Tags associated with the scheme include: Counselling, Family, Psychological, Rehabilitation.