The name of this welfare scheme is Pre Matric Scholarship For Students With Disabilities. It is also known as PRE-DIS. A scholarship scheme by DoEPwDs for Students with Disabilities (SwDs) studying in class 9th and class 10th in a government school or a school recognized by the government or CBSE or State Board.


The students with the specified disabilities defined in Schedule of the &quot;Rights of Persons with Disabilities Act, 2016&quot; will be eligible under this scheme. This includes persons with visual, hearing, speech, loco-motor, mental retardation, and other disabilities. NOS is implemented offline by the DEPwD.


At times SwDs are deprived of harnessing their latent skills and thereby miss the opportunity. This scheme aims to support SwDs to study further in order to prepare themselves to earn their livelihood and to find a dignified place for themselves in the society as they face several barriers physical, financial, psychological, mental in pursuing studies and living with dignity. The scheme targets beneficiaries such as Individual. The implementing agency is National Scholarship Portal (NSP). Additionally, the nodal ministry is Ministry Of Social Justice and Empowerment and the nodal department is Department Of Empowerment Of Persons With Disabilities.

It falls under the categories: Education & Learning, Social welfare & Empowerment.

Eligibility criteria include: The applicant must be a student studying in Class 9th or Class 10th.
The applicant must be disabled, with disability percentage of 40% or above.
The Total Annual income of parents/guardians of the applicant (from all sources) must not exceed ₹ 00 Lakh per Annum.
The applicant must not be availing any other scholarship by the govt.
The applicant must not be the third sibling of the family who has been given this scholarship. For more information, please refer to: Guidelines: http://disabilityaffairs.gov.in/upload/uploadfiles/files/scholarship2(1).pdf Tags associated with the scheme include: Book Grant, Education, Persons With Disability, Pre-Matric, Scholarship, School, Social Welfare, Student, Students With Disabilities.