The name of this welfare scheme is Training Of Motor Driving To VJNT, SBS & OBC. It is also known as TMDVSO. The Government of Maharashtra launched a scheme that provides light and heavy motor driving, and conductor training to the needy Vimukta Jati, Nomadic Tribes, and Other Backward Class (VJNT, OBC &amp; SBC) candidates. The scheme’s objective is to create employment chances for Vimukta Jati/Nomadic Tribes, Other Backward Classes, and Special Backward Class youth. The scheme provides light and heavy motor driving or conductor training to the needy VJNT, OBC &amp; SBC candidates. The training is given through private motor driving schools. Under this scheme, the selected candidates are provided training with free lodging, boarding facility, License Fees, etc. Applicant should belong to VJNT, OBC, or SBC Category and Applicant should fulfill all the conditions of Age, Education, and fitness as per the Motor Vehicle Act. The government aims to provide training and Economic Uplifting with the help of employment to the youth.  Application is to be submitted to Motor Driving School approved by the Government of Maharashtra under the Social Justice and special assistance department.


Light Motor Driving Rs.4264/- for 40 Days. 
Heavy Motor Driving Rs.4960/- for 40 Days. 
Conductor Rs.1728/- for 8 Days.       
As per the corrigendum dated 15 March 2012 Rs.100/- per student is paid for sending the license by post as particular fee &amp; postage charges. The scheme targets beneficiaries such as Individual. It is specifically implemented in Maharashtra. Additionally, the nodal department is Social Justice and Special Assistance Department.

The scheme provides the following benefits: 1)	If the trainee is not living at headquarters during the training period, the institution should pay Rs.300/for Driver and Rs.150/for the Conductor trainee as a stipend.

Eligibility criteria include: Applicant should belong to VJNT, OBC or SBC Category. 
Applicant should fulfil all the conditions of Age, Education, and fitness as per the Motor Vehicle Act. 
During the training period payment for reaching &amp; coming back from the training institute, Medical checkups, photographs, learning and permanent licence, travelling licence, batch and provision of lodging and boarding are provided by the training institution. The application process is as follows: Step 1: Visit the Official Website of Mahadbt Portal.


Step 2: Click on &quot;New Applicant Registration&quot;. Register using your Name, Mobile Number, and Email ID. Create a Username and Password. Your Mobile Number and Email ID will be verified via OTP.


Note: The username should contain only alphabets and numbers. The username should be greater than 4 characters and less than 15 characters.


Note: Password Length should be a minimum of 8 characters and a maximum of 20 characters. Password must contain at least 1 UpperCase Alphabet, 1 Lowercase Alphabet, 1 Number, and 1 Special Character.


Step 3: Now visit to Login Page and log in using your Username and Password. You will be directed to Home Page.
In the left pane, click &quot;Aadhaar Bank Link&quot; to link your Aadhaar with your Bank Account.


Step 4: In the left pane, click &quot;Profile&quot;. Fill in all the mandatory details and upload the mandatory documents (Personal Details, Address Information, Other Information, Current Course, Past Qualification, and Hostel Details). Click &quot;Save&quot;.


Step 5: In the left pane, click &quot;All Schemes&quot;. A list of schemes will appear. Click on &quot;Training of Motor Driving To VJNT, SBC &amp; OBCS.


Step 6: Fill in all the additional information and upload the mandatory documents. Click &quot;Submit&quot; to submit your application. A popup will appear, displaying your Application ID. Save the Application ID for future reference. Click &quot;OK&quot;.


Optional: You can track the status of your application (Under Scrutiny / Approved / Rejected / Fund Disbursed) by clicking on &quot;My Applied Scheme History&quot; in the left pane. For more information, please refer to: Guideline: https://sjsa.maharashtra.gov.in/sites/default/files/vjntscheme/eng/2-20.pdf Tags associated with the scheme include: Maharashtra, Motor Driving, Other Backward Class, School, Special Backward Caste, Training, Vimukta Jati And Nomadic Tribes.