The name of this welfare scheme is Atal Sneh Yojana. It is also known as ASYG. Detailed 
Atal Sneh Yojana in Gujarat is the scheme that has launched on the 25th of December 2016 on the occasion of former Prime Minister Atal Bihari Vajpayee’s ninety-second birthday. The scheme is launched by the Chief Minister of Gujarat, Mr. Vijay Rupani. The scheme will look forward to a healthy child after their birth. It was decided at the Gandhinagar Civil Hospital and it will look upon the children up to two months after their birth.
After focusing on the health of the children and covering some major diseases the government has now shifted its focus to core issues. Basically, the Atal Sneh Yojana will replace the decades-old Annual School Program which was being carried out by the health and education departments.
For this new scheme, newborn children will be screened specifically to look for health defects and improve them. This is being launched wide across Gujarat. Under this scheme, the newborn kids will be screened and given treatment immediately if there is any illness found. It will be carried out for two long months.
Objectives 

   1. Through this scheme, children can be provided with better health. Better health will lead to avoiding malnutrition, disorders, and diseases.
   1. Around seven percent of newly born babies every year are suffering from certain disorders and that has created a serious issue in the international platform. So by preventing such trouble, the country can be in a better position in international health conferences.
   1. With such schemes, the government is also looking for a stronger young generation and this young generation would lead to having a stronger nation.

some of the dire diseases kids suffer from

   1. The children suffer from some very grave diseases such as complicated birth defects such as Down’s syndrome, congenital deafness, club foot, neural tube defect, etc.
   1. These are not all. There are some diseases, which are there present in the dormant state within the genes. By checking the kids at their tender age, the doctors will be able to better treat them.
   1. The Chief Minister of the state launched that all of the diseases that are detected at the maternity homes by the government will be taken care of by the government.

&amp;lt;br&amp;gt;

&lt;br&gt; The scheme targets beneficiaries such as Individual. It is specifically implemented in Gujarat. Additionally, the nodal department is Health & Family Welfare Department.

It falls under the categories: Health & Wellness.

Eligibility criteria include: Eligibility 

   All Newborn children are eligible.
   Age should be up to two months after their birth. For more information, please refer to: Details: https://gujaratindia.gov.in/media/news.htm?NewsID=ZWXVG9lqjK+b27raI+MBRQ== Tags associated with the scheme include: Atal Sneh, Gujarat, Health, Newborn Child.