The name of this welfare scheme is Vayomadhuram Scheme For Providing Glucometer To Senior Citizens. It is also known as VSPGSC. The scheme “Vayomadhuram Scheme for Providing Glucometer to Senior Citizens” was launched by the Department of Social Justice, Government of Kerala. Kerala has the largest number of diabetes patients in India and 19.4% of people have diabetes in Kerala on the basis of studies conducted by ICMR (Indian Council of Medical Research). 80% of the old-age population in Kerala suffers from diabetes.
The Government of Kerala has started this scheme which provides glucometers freely to elderly diabetic persons coming under Below Poverty Line (BPL) category. Under this scheme, the Government will provide glucometers to 1000 diabetic old age persons in each district of Kerala State. The scheme targets beneficiaries such as Individual. It is specifically implemented in Kerala. The implementing agency is District Social Justice Office, Kerala. Additionally, the nodal department is Social Justice Department.

The scheme provides the following benefits: Glucometers are provided freely to elderly diabetic persons coming under Below Poverty Line (BPL) category.
Glucometers are provided to 1000 diabetic old age persons in each district of Kerala.

Eligibility criteria include: The applicant should be a native and resident of Kerala State.
   The applicant’s age has to be 60 years or above.
   The applicants should be from Below Poverty Line (BPL) category.
   An authorized Doctor has to certify that the applicant is suffering from diabetes.

Note: If there are a large number of applicants, priority will be given to older persons. The application process is as follows: Registration Process:
Step 01: To avail of the benefits of the scheme, the applicant needs to visit SUNEETHIOnline Service Application Portal
Step 02: On the home page, click on “One time Registration”
Step 03: Fill in the details like Name, Email ID &amp;amp; Mobile Number and click on ‘Register’.
Step 04: The applicant needs to enter the verification code received on the mobile number and click on ‘Verify’.
Step 05: Now, a form will open to create the new profile, fill in all the mandatory details and click on ‘Register’.
Login/Application Process: 
Step 01: Once the registration process is completed, the applicant should visit SUNEETHIOnline Service Application Portal and click on “Citizen Login”.
Step 02: Enter the user name i.e. Mobile Number and Password and click on “Sign in”.
Step 03: Now, the applicant needs to update all their details i.e. Personal Information, Contact Details, Identity Cards &amp;amp; Bank Details by clicking on the &amp;#39;Edit&amp;#39; button.
Step 04: Once the applicant updated their profile successfully, the schemes will appear on the left side of the screen.
Step 05: Select the scheme and click on the “Apply Now” button.
Step 06: Fill in all the mandatory details in the application form and click on the ‘Submit’ button. Step 01: To avail of the benefits of the scheme, the applicant needs to visit the official website of the Social Justice Department, Government of Kerala to download the application form.
Step 02: The applicants need to fill out the application form completely.
Step 03: Duly filledin application form along with relevant supporting documents have to be submitted to the concerned District Social Justice Office. For more information, please refer to: Official Website: http://sjd.kerala.gov.in/scheme-info.php?scheme_id=MTQ2c1Y4dXFSI3Z5 Application Form: http://sjd.kerala.gov.in/DOCUMENTS/Downloadables/Application%20Forms/25979.pdf Order/Notice: http://sjd.kerala.gov.in/DOCUMENTS/Order_new/GOs/36685.pdf Tags associated with the scheme include: BPL, Diabetes, Diabetic, Glucometer, Old Age, Patient, Senior Citizen.