The name of this welfare scheme is "Management Training" Component of the "Development of Industries" Scheme. It is also known as MT-PUDU. The scheme &quot;Management Training&quot; is a component of the &quot;Development of Industries&quot; Scheme by the District Industries Centre, Department of Industries and Commerce, Union Territory of Puducherry. Through this scheme, management training is imparted as a means to enhance productivity. It is imparted to the entrepreneurs/industrialists or their representative in various disciplines namely Financial Management, Marketing Management, Personnel Management, Quality control, etc, to discharge their duties in an efficient manner benefiting both the employee and employer and the economy. The scheme targets beneficiaries such as Individual. It is specifically implemented in Puducherry. Additionally, the nodal department is Industries and Commerce Department, Puducherry.

The scheme provides the following benefits: 90% of the Training Expenditure is Given as Subsidy by the Government to the Micro and Small Scale Entrepreneur/industrialists or Their Representatives.
The amount of subsidy is paid through the Puducherry Management and Productivity Council.
10% of the fees for training is to be borne by the Industrialists.
Management Training is Imparted by qualified resource persons from various renowned institutions in Various Disciplines Namely Financial Management, Marketing Management, Personnel Management, Quality Control, Etc.

Eligibility criteria include: Entrepreneurs/Industrialists or their representatives are eligible. The application process is as follows: Step 1: The interested applicant should take print of the prescribed format of the application form.
Step 2: In the application form, fill in all the mandatory fields, paste the passportsized photograph (signed across, if required), and attach copies of all the mandatory documents (selfattest, if required).
Step 3: The interested applicant should visit (on a working day, and during office hours) the Secretary, Puducherry Management and 
Productivity Council, Puducherry, and submit the duly filled and signed application form and the documents to the concerned authority.
Step 4: On receipt of the application, necessary entries will be made in the application receipt register and a unique number is assigned to the applicant for identifying each applicant which shall be used for all further references and also as acknowledgement for the receipt of the application. For more information, please refer to: Guidelines: https://dic.py.gov.in/training Citizen's Charter: https://dic.py.gov.in/sites/default/files/citizencharter.pdf Contact Us: https://dic.py.gov.in/contact-us Tags associated with the scheme include: Entrepreneur, Financial, Management, Marketing, Training.