The name of this welfare scheme is Walk In Tunnel. It is also known as WIT. The Walk-In Tunnel under the Agriculture Department of the Rajasthan government provides the benefit of a subsidy to the farmers with affordable and efficient structures that offer protection from adverse weather conditions, pests, and diseases. 
Walk In Tunnels are basically protected structures made from Pre-galvanized pipe and covered with UV Stabilized Plastic sheets. Generally Tunnels are used to give favorable controlled environments like temperature, humidity, light intensity, ventilation, soil media, disease control, irrigation, Fertigation, and other agronomical practices throughout the season irrespective of the natural conditions outside. Walk In Tunnel has a variety of applications, the majority being, the growing of vegetables, floriculture, planting material acclimatization, and fruit crop growing for the export market.


> Important points


1. The construction of Walk in Tunnel can be started only after the administrative approval/work order issued by the Horticulture Department.
1. Verification can be done by the committee formed after construction.
1. Payment of the grant amount directly into the bank account of the farmer or to the producer firm with the written consent of the farmer. The scheme targets beneficiaries such as Individual. It is specifically implemented in Rajasthan. Additionally, the nodal department is Agriculture Department.

The scheme provides the following benefits: 50 percent grant is payable for the area.
800 square meters (maximum 5 units per beneficiary).
400 square meters (maximum 10 units per beneficiary).

Eligibility criteria include: The applicant must be a native of Rajasthan.
The applicant should be a Farmer.
The applicant must have agricultural land ownership and irrigation sources. The application process is as follows: > Registration

Step1: Applicant have to visit the official portal. 
Step2: Click on the option “Register”.
Step3: Then you will be redirected to the SSO registration page. The registration page will appear with the following options.


  Citizen


Step4: Choose the either one option from  the Jan Aadhaar Or Google to process further.


  Jan Aadhaar : Enter the Jan Aadhaar number, click on the ‘Next’ button,


      Select your name, the name of the head of the family and all the other members and 
      Click on the ‘Send OTP’ button. Enter the ‘OTP’ and 
      Click on the ‘Verify OTP’ button to Complete the registration. 






  Google : Enter the Gmail ID, click on the ‘Next’ button, 


      Enter the password.
      A new link appear on screen, now click on the new SSO link.
      SSO id will appear on the screen, now create the password.
      Enter Mobile number, click on registration.




Step5: Submit.


> Apply

Step1: Applicant have to visit the official portal. 
Step2: After login, dashboard will open.
Step3: Click on “ RAJKISAN ” option. 
Step4: In &quot;Farmer&quot;, click on &quot;Application Entry Request&quot;.
Step5: Enter the &quot;Bhamashah ID&quot; or &quot;Janaadhaar ID&quot; and search.  
Step6: Select the person name and scheme name. 
Step7: Complete the Aadhaar Authentication and click on Get details. 
Step8: Provide the required details.
            Pensioner Details.
            Bank Details.
            Disability Details.
            Verification Details.
            Upload Documents.
Step9: Submit. For more information, please refer to: Guidelines: https://rajkisan.rajasthan.gov.in/Rajkisanweb/Kisan# Registration: https://sso.rajasthan.gov.in/register Login: https://sso.rajasthan.gov.in/signin Tags associated with the scheme include: Agriculture, Crops, Walk In Tunnel.