The name of this welfare scheme is Chief Minister’s White Revolutions Scheme. It is also known as CMWRS. The CMWRS was approved in the 2018-19 budget announcement with a total outlay of ₹750.00 lakh. It aims to create a cooperative model of 200 dairy farmers in Pasighat, Rupa, Tezu, Chowkham, and Roing as milk production hubs. The scheme provides a minimum support price for milk procurement and strengthens the milk plant at Karsingsa and Rupa. The scheme also supports vermicompost facilities through 200 farmers to promote organic farming and the Green India campaign. 
The implementation of the scheme is through the department of Animal Husbandry, Veterinary &amp; Dairy Development with tie-ups with the Apex Bank and NABARD. Selection of farmers, formation of District Dairy Appraisal Committee (DDAC), and selection of beneficiaries on a cluster basis by the District Dairy Development Committee have already been formulated. The scheme helps in poverty alleviation, economic upliftment, minimizes human migration, ensures the health of the farmers through supplement milk production, and enhances organic agricultural/horticultural productivity. It is specifically implemented in Arunachal Pradesh. Additionally, the nodal department is Animal husbandry, Veterinary and Dairy Department.

It falls under the categories: Agriculture,Rural & Environment.

Eligibility criteria include: a. The dairy farmers of Arunachal Pradesh are eligible for the scheme as selected by the District Dairy Development Committee.
b. The preference will be given to women and genuinely poor.
c. The beneficiaries will be selected on a cluster basis by the District Dairy Development Committee.
d. The scheme provides a minimum support price for milk procurement.
e. The beneficiaries will receive a capital subsidy of 50% up to ₹00 lakh for a minimum unit of 2 cows through the Apex bank. For more information, please refer to: Official Notification: https://roing.nic.in/departments/ah-veterinary/ Tags associated with the scheme include: Livelihood, Organic Farming, Poverty Alleviation.