The name of this welfare scheme is Infrastructure and Technology Support . It is also known as IATS. The sub-scheme “Infrastructure and Technology Support” aims to develop world-class infrastructure in the country to support handicraft production, enhance product quality, and reduce costs to enable it to compete in the global market. For the development of the handicrafts sector and benefit of handicrafts artisans, various components like Urban Haat, Emporia, Marketing and Sourcing Hub, Handicraft Museum, Craft-Based Resource Centre, Common Facility Centre, Raw Material Depot, Crafts Village etc. 


The objective of this component is to setup a permanent marketing infrastructure in towns/ metropolitan cities to provide direct marketing facilities to the handicrafts artisans/handloom weavers. The scheme targets beneficiaries such as Industries. Additionally, the nodal ministry is Ministry Of Textiles.

The scheme provides the following benefits: Under Infrastructure and Technology Support – National Handicraft Development Programme are being implemented on a need basis on receipt of feasible and viable proposals from the eligible agencies as per the scheme guidelines throughout the country. 
Under this subscheme, concerted efforts are being made to enhance production, productivity, and efficiency and to increase the income and socioeconomic status of artisans. 

Financial assistance and funding pattern:  

The financial ceiling for urban haat is maximum INR 800 lakh for each unit for 80 stalls.
40% of the admissible amount shall be borne by the O/o the DC(H) and DC(Hl) each and 20% will be contributed by the state implementing agency. 
Land will be provided by state govt and will be over and above the 20 % contribution by the implementing agency.  In case of NER, Jammu &amp; Kashmir, Ladakh – 45 % of the admissible amount will be borne by the O/o the DC (HC) and DC (HL) each and 10% shall be contributed by the implementing agency. 
Assistance will also be given for strengthening/renovation of existing Urban Haats subject to a maximum financial limit of INR 250 lakhs (90% assistance will be borne by the Office of the DC (Handicrafts) &amp; DC(Hl)and 10% by state.

NoteThe financial assistance will be based on the number of stalls, land area &amp; other deliverables in proportionate manner. The PAMC shall comprise DC (HC), ADC (HC), ADC(HL), representative of IFW and representative of State Implementing agency.

Eligibility criteria include: Eligible Local statutory bodies, Apex Cooperative Societies, and National level Apex Societies (registered under the Society Act/Trust Act, etc.)  
Producer Company supported by O/O DC Handicrafts.
Only implementing agencies with a minimum audited annual turnover of Rs. 5 Cr in the last three consecutive years will be eligible for implementation of infrastructure projects. However, this provision shall not be applied in the case of Central/State or state government agencies as an Implementing Agency (IA). The application process is as follows: > For the Implementing Agencies:

The proposals in the prescribed proforma along with all the (selfattested) supporting documents in hard copy should reach the concerned Handicraft Service Center (HSC), O/o the DC (HC) in time.


NOTE 1: The proposal sent earlier without any invitation or received after the timeline/last date, mentioned above, will not be entertained.
NOTE 2: Incomplete proposals without the mandatory enclosures and proposals that are not clearly recommended and received after the due date will not be considered. For more information, please refer to: Guideline: chrome-extension://efaidnbmnnnibpcajpcglclefindmkaj/https://www.handicrafts.nic.in/pdf/Scheme.pdf Tags associated with the scheme include: Handicraft, Infrastructure, Marketing And Sourcing Hub, Technology Support.