The name of this welfare scheme is Dr. B.R. Ambedkar Memorial Award to Scheduled Caste Students. It is also known as DBRAMASCS. The scheme &quot;Dr. B.R. Ambedkar Memorial Award to Scheduled Caste Students” was introduced by the Adi Dravidar Welfare Department, Government of Puducherry. The award is granted to top ranking boy and girl student in each region (Pondicherry, Karaikal and Yanam) who have secured not less than 55% of marks in the aggregate in the Higher Secondary Examination. The scheme targets beneficiaries such as Individual. It is specifically implemented in Puducherry. Additionally, the nodal department is Adi Dravidar Welfare Department, Puducherry.

The scheme provides the following benefits: Cash Award of ₹15,000/.

Eligibility criteria include: The applicant should be from a Scheduled Caste.
The applicant should be a Student.
The applicant should have secured 55% or above marks in the Higher Secondary Examination.
The applicant should be a Native/Resident of the Union Territory of Puducherry for not less than 5 years. The application process is as follows: Step 1: The interested applicant should visit (during office hours) the Office/ SubOffice of the Adi Dravidar Welfare and Scheduled Tribes Welfare Department, and request the hard copy of the prescribed format of the application form from the staff exclusively entrusted to issue and collect filledin applications.
Step 2: In the application form, fill in all the mandatory fields, paste the passportsized photograph (signed across, if required), and attach copies of all the mandatory documents (selfattest, if required).
Step 3: Submit the duly filled and signed application form along with the documents to the concerned authority.
Step 4: Request a receipt or acknowledgment from the concerned authority to whom the application has been submitted. Ensure that the receipt contains essential details such as the date and time of submission, and a unique identification number (if applicable). For more information, please refer to: Guidelines: https://adwelfare.py.gov.in/dr-br-ambedkar-memorial-award-sc-students Contact Us: https://adwelfare.py.gov.in/contact-us Citizen's Charter: https://py.gov.in/sites/default/files/citizencharter-adidravidar.pdf Tags associated with the scheme include: Award, Financial Assistance, Scheduled Caste, Students.