The name of this welfare scheme is Shaikshanik Chatravriti Yojana. It is also known as MSKSCY. Getting an education is the basic right of the child. Even today there are many students in our country who are unable to get an education due to their weak economic condition. For all these students, the government operates various types of scholarship schemes.

1. This scheme will be the educational scholarship scheme of the Madhya Pradesh Labor Welfare Board.
1.  This scheme will be applicable to the workers/employees working in those institutions/establishments of the state which are governed by M.P. The Labor Welfare Fund comes under the Act 1982 and the Board receives contributions from them regularly. The scheme targets beneficiaries such as Individual. It is specifically implemented in Madhya Pradesh. Additionally, the nodal department is Labour Department.

The scheme provides the following benefits: Under the scheme, the scholarship amount fixed for each class is provided by the board to the students studying in  Class 5th to 12th, Graduation, Post Graduation, ITI, Polytechnic, PGDCA, DCA (Computer Course), B.E., M.B.B.S. M.Sc.
   The scholarship amount will be paid by the student by epayment through the Regional Office after the approval of the Welfare Commissioner as per the bank details given along with the application.

Eligibility criteria include: Applicant must be a permanent resident of Madhya Pradesh.
The parents of the applicant must be working in a factory or institution established in Madhya Pradesh under the Labor Welfare Fund Act Only 2 children in a family are eligible to get the benefit of this scheme.
Children of officers and employees in managerial capacities working in institutions cannot be benefited from this regime. The application process is as follows: The applicant will go to the scholarship portal of the Student Labor Welfare Board.Click on &quot;Do Registration&quot; under registration.Now fill out the entries of the academic scholarship application form online. 
The applicant will have to authenticate his/her identity by giving his own and his/her mother&#39;s / father&#39;s Aadhaar numbers. 
Online applications for academic scholarships will have to be made within the time limit set by the board. Applications received after the prescribed period will not be considered by the Board and no action will be taken.
The Mandatory documents must be included with the application form. For more information, please refer to: Guidelines: https://scholarshipportal.mp.nic.in/ShramKalyan/Pages/about.aspx Tags associated with the scheme include: Financial Assistance, Student Education, Support Economic Conditions.