The name of this welfare scheme is The Inland Waterways Authority of India Internship Scheme. It is also known as IWAI-INTERNSHIP. Inland Waterways Authority of India (IWAI); a statutory body under the Ministry of Ports, Shipping and Waterways has introduced a scheme named &amp;amp;quot;The Inland Waterways Authority of India Internship Scheme&amp;amp;quot;. This Internship Programme will provide an excellent opportunity to interns to familiarize them with the overall proves of development of Inland Waterways Authority of India at the macro level. 
Objectives of this Scheme are as under:

  - To allow young academic talent to be associated with IWAI work for mutual benefit.


  - The “Interns” shall have the opportunity to know about IWAI functioning, understand overall process of development of Inland Waterways Transport (IWT) of India at the macro level, issues faced and contribute towards inputs, analysis, report writing, proposal preparation work.
Other key points of this Scheme:

   1. Certificates will be issued to the interns on satisfactory completion of their internship and on submission of their Report/paper and its evaluation by the Director/ Director-In Charge level officers in their concerned Division.
   1. Interns will be required to have their own laptops.
   1. IWAI will provide them with working space. 
   1. Interns are required to furnish to the Authority a declaration of secrecy before reporting for the internship.
   1. The interns will be required to present to the concerned Head of Division a Report/Paper on the allotted subject at the end of the internship.
   1. The maximum number of interns during the year 2024-25 to be trained at IWAI are as under : Undergraduate (UG) is 10 (Ten) and Post Graduate/Research Scholar (PG) is 15 (Fifteen).

&amp;lt;br&amp;gt; The scheme targets beneficiaries such as Individual. Additionally, the nodal ministry is Ministry of Ports,Shipping and Waterways.

The scheme provides the following benefits: &gt; Remuneration

Stipend @ ₹ 10,000/for Undergraduates and ₹ 20,000/for Post Graduate/ Research Scholars per month will be payable on satisfactory completion of their internships. 
Note:

   Last month&amp;#39;s remuneration shall be provided on submission of their Report/paper. 
   Interns will be eligible for remuneration equivalent to the number of days of attendance in the office against the total number of working days in that month.

&gt; Experience Certificate

A certificate regarding the successful completion of the Internship shall be issued by IWAI in the enclosed format in AnnexureB of the Scheme Guidelines.
Note:

   The certificate will be issued upon the submission of their Report/paper and its evaluation by the Director/ DirectorIn Charge level officers in their concerned Division.

Eligibility criteria include: A candidate must be pursuing or have completed a Graduate/PG degree from a recognized university (national as well international) is eligible to apply for the internship provided:

Graduates must have a score of at least 75% in the 12th standard.
PG students must have obtained 60% marks in graduation.
Research scholars must have scored a minimum of 60% marks in a PG degree. The application process is as follows: To apply for the Inland Waterways Authority of India Internship, interested candidates must:

   Fill in the application forms as prescribed in AnnexureA of the official bulletin.    They must also enclose their CVs along with the application. 
   The applications must be sent to The Secretary, Inland Waterways Authority of India, A13, Sector1, NoidaApplicants must also clearly indicate the area of interest. For more information, please refer to: Guidelines: https://iwai.nic.in/sites/default/files/Internship%20Policy%202024-25-1.pdf Official Website: https://iwai.nic.in/recruitment/vacancy Tags associated with the scheme include: Internship, Stipend, Student.