The name of this welfare scheme is Living Craft Treasure Award. It is also known as LCTA. The &quot;Living Craft Treasure Award&quot; scheme was launched by the Handlooms, Handicrafts, Textiles, and Khadi Department, Government of Tamil Nadu. This is the highest award for handicrafts at the state level was introduced in the year 2013-2014 to craftsperson’s of eminence who are above the age of 65 years. This award consists of a cash prize of Rs.1.00 lakh, a thamirapattiram, an 8-gram gold medal, and a certificate. The award is granted yearly. The scheme targets beneficiaries such as Individual. It is specifically implemented in Tamil Nadu. Additionally, the nodal department is Handlooms, Handicrafts, Textiles and Khadi Department.

The scheme provides the following benefits: Cash Prize of ₹1,00,000/. 
Thamirapattiram.
8gram Gold Medal.
Certificate.

Eligibility criteria include: The applicant should be an artisan.
The applicant should be a native of Tamil Nadu. 
The applicant should be working in the handicraft industry in Tamil Nadu.
The applicant should be 65 years of age or above.
The experience of the craftsman and the service he has rendered in his profession&#39;s special features will be taken into consideration during selection. The application process is as follows: Advertisements are released in June every year.
Step 1: The interested applicant should take print of the prescribed format of the application form.
Step 2: In the application form, fill in all the mandatory fields, paste the passportsized photograph (signed across, if required), and attach copies of all the mandatory documents (selfattest, if required).
Step 3: Submit the duly filled and signed application form along with the documents (during office hoursMondayFriday) to the Head Office only through Poompucar Sales and Manufacturing Plant Managers.
Step 4: Request a receipt or acknowledgment from the concerned authority to whom the application has been submitted. Ensure that the receipt contains essential details such as the date and time of submission, and a unique identification number (if applicable).
NOTE: 

Artisans participating in the examination should send the handicrafts.
Application and all documents attached with applications should be on A4 size paper.
All documents should be done. Page Numbered and Spiral Binding.
All the above should be sent details and recording on CD. For more information, please refer to: Citizen Charter (2021): https://cms.tn.gov.in/sites/default/files/documents/tnhdc_e_cc_2021_22.pdf Application Form: https://poompuhar.com/tnhdc/downloads/16966657771539106549.pdf Tags associated with the scheme include: Artisans, Award, Financial Assistance, Handicrafts, Senior Citizen.