The name of this welfare scheme is Travel Grant Scheme For College Teachers / College Librarians / Vice Chancellors / Commission Members And UGC Officers. It is also known as TGSCTCLVCCMUO. This scheme provides financial assistance to permanent teachers and librarians of colleges and vice-chancellors of state universities, deemed to be universities and central universities to present research papers at international conferences abroad. This facility is also available to the permanent teachers of Institutions of National Importance with a cap of 10% of the total approved cases annually. The Commission members and UGC Officers at the level of EO/US and above are also eligible to apply under this scheme. The scheme targets beneficiaries such as Individual. Additionally, the nodal ministry is Ministry of Education and the nodal department is Department Of Higher Education.

The scheme provides the following benefits: Financial Assistance for the total admissible expenditure such as travel, registration fee, per diem allowance and visa fee.
NOTE: The entire amount due to the candidate is disbursed in one instalment after the conference is over and relevant documents are submitted by the applicant.

Eligibility criteria include: The applicant should qualify as one of the following Permanent Teacher of College, College Librarian enlisted in 2 (f) and 12 B of the UGC Act.Vice Chancellor of State University / Deemed to be University / Central University recognized under sections 2(f) and 12(B) of the UGC Act.UGC Member, UGC Officer and SC/ST/OBC (NonCreamy Layer) / Physically Handicapped Teacher.
Permanent Teacher of an Institution of National Importance.
Commission Member or UGC Officer at the level of EO/US and above. The application process is as follows: The application in the prescribed application form along with all necessary enclosures should be sent to: 
Joint Secretary (Travel Grant), University Grants Commission, Bahadur Shah Zafar Marg, New Delhi110002 


NOTE 1: The application should be sent at least two months prior to the commencement of the conference.
NOTE 2: Incomplete applications will not be considered and no correspondence will be entertained in this regard.
NOTE 3: The submission of a proposal does not automatically mean that it has the approval of the UGC. For more information, please refer to: Guidelines: https://www.ugc.gov.in/pdfnews/4996878_TGGuidelines.pdf Tags associated with the scheme include: Conference, Grant, International, Librarian, Teacher, Travel.