The name of this welfare scheme is Biju Patnaik Sports Award for Excellence in Coaching. It is also known as BPSAEC. The “Biju Patnaik Sports Award for Excellence in Coaching” is a category of award under the “Biju Patnaik Sports Award&amp;quot; Scheme. The scheme was launched by the Sports &amp;amp; Youth Services Department, Government of Odisha to commemorate the yeoman service of late Biju Patnaik, the ex-Chief Minister of Odisha, towards the development of Sports &amp;amp; Games in the State by conferring the highest honour of the Government of Odisha in the field of Sports in his name. The award is given to the coaches who have devoted their career to imparting Coaching in any of the major sports disciplines and have coached Sportspersons achieving excellence at National and International levels.
&gt; Objective:


   1. To encourage the development of Sports and Games in the State.
   1. To honour meritorious sportspersons who have made the State Proud.

Coach: A person who has been employed as a Coach in State Government, Sports and Youth Services Department, SAI, O.C.S., Sports Associations, or any other Corporate, Private Sectors, Organizations, Clubs with regular sports activities in pursuing active coaching in individual capacity or a person who produces outstanding result in different Olympic Sports Disciplines and non-Olympic Sports Disciplines recognized by G.O.I. and State Government and such Indigenous Sports which are recognized by the State Government under extant Rule.
Sports Discipline: The sports disciplines recognized by the International Olympic Committee (I.O.C.), Indian Olympic Association (I.O.A.), Government of India (G.O.I.), Sports Authority of India (S.A.I.) and Government of Odisha (G.O.O.) including Sports Event for Persons with Disability. The scheme targets beneficiaries such as Individual. It is specifically implemented in Odisha. The implementing agency is Sports & Youth Services Department, Government Of Odisha. Additionally, the nodal department is Sports and Youth Services Department.

The scheme provides the following benefits: The award shall be presented every year subject to the availability of suitable candidates, which will carry a cash award of ₹1,00,000/.
   A statue, a scroll of honour, and a blazer with a tie shall be given along with all the Cash Awards.
   The Awardees shall be invited to receive the awards in person. They shall be given T.A. and D.A. at the rate admissible to a Grade &amp;#39;A&amp;#39; Officer.

Note 01: Canvassing for the award in any form is prohibited.
Note 02: The award can also be given posthumously to the next of kin of the awardee.
Note 03: In case of selection of more than one person for an award, the award money will be shared amongst the awardees.
Note 04: It will not be binding on the Department of Sports &amp;amp; Youth Services to confer the award every year. In case of nonavailability of suitable persons for the award, the award shall not be given for the respective year.

Eligibility criteria include: The applicant should be a permanent resident of the State of Odisha or shall be staying at least for a period not less than 07 years.
   To be eligible for this award, a coach should have devoted his/her career to imparting Coaching in any of the major sports disciplines and should have coached Sportspersons achieving excellence at National and International levels.
   The applicant should not have been convicted of any criminal offence.
   The award will be conferred on a person only once in his/her lifetime, pertaining to the concerned category.
   The award can be given posthumously to the next of kin of the selected awardee.

&gt; Annulment Cancellation of Award:


  The Award may be cancelled in case it is found that it has been obtained by fraudulent means.
  In such event, the concerned person shall be asked to refund the award failing which steps will be taken to recover the involved cost from him/her with simple interest @ 5% per annum. The application process is as follows: &gt; Application process:

Step 01: Advertisement for the award shall be uploaded every year in January on the Department Website with the prescribed format for the application.
Step 02: The applicants can download the application form from the official website or collect it from the office of District Collector, DSOs, SPs, NYKS, Odisha Council of Sports and Sports &amp;amp; Youth Services Department.
Step 03: Fill in the all necessary details in the application form and attach all the relevant documents.
Step 04: The application forms can be sent by the Collector, SP, DSO, NYKS concerned Sports Association, the person himself/herself, or Odisha Council of Sports to the Sports &amp;amp; Youth Services Department.
Note 01: The Department of Sports and Youth Services also reserves the right to suo moto nominate names for the award.
Note 02: The application form and all supporting documents must be selfattested by the applicant, i.e. there is no need for attestation by any Gazetted officer.
&gt; Scrutiny of Application:


  The Secretary, Sports, and Youth Services Department will constitute a fivemember scrutiny Committee comprising senior officials and coaches of the Department with DirectorcumAddl. Secretary, Sports and Youth Services Department or the senior most officer of the Department as head of the Committee to scrutinize all the applications and place the scrutiny result before the selection committee for consideration.

&gt; Selection Procedure: 


  An eightmember Selection Committee will be constituted by Govt. under the chairmanship of Secretary, Sports and Youth Services Department for the selection of awardees.
  The Selection Committee shall examine the scrutinized nominations/applications and recommend names for each award for approval of Government at the level of Hon&amp;#39;ble Minister, Sports &amp;amp; Youth Services.

&gt; Timeline for the Award:


  Invitation of application through issue of Advertisement: By 31st January.
  Last date for receipt of applications: By 31st March
  Scrutiny and Selection: By 31st May
  Award Ceremony: 29th August (National Sports Day) For more information, please refer to: Official Website: https://sports.odisha.gov.in/schemes/sports-persons-welfare-schemes Scheme Guidelines: https://sports.odisha.gov.in/sites/default/files/2021-12/BijuPatnaikSportsAwardnew.pdf Application Form-2022: https://sports.odisha.gov.in/sites/default/files/2023-07/Application-Biju-Patnaik-Awards.pdf Tags associated with the scheme include: Coach, Coaching, Games, Sports Award.