The name of this welfare scheme is Scheme of Extending Financial Assistance to Folk Artists, Troupes for the Purchase of Musical Instruments, Costumes. It is also known as SOEFATFATFTPOMIC. &quot;Scheme of Extending Financial Assistance to Folk Artists, Troupes for the Purchase of Musical Instruments, Costumes&quot; was launched by the Art and Culture Department, Government of Tamil Nadu. The scheme provides a sum of ₹2,000/- to individual folk artists &amp; ₹6,000/- for cultural troupes, as a grant for the purchase of Musical Instruments and Costumes. The scheme targets beneficiaries such as Artists. It is specifically implemented in Tamil Nadu. The implementing agency is Tamil Nadu Eyal Isai Nataka Mandram. Additionally, the nodal department is Art and Culture Department.

The scheme provides the following benefits: For Folk Artists, financial Assistance of ₹2,000/.
For Troupes, financial Assistance of ₹6,000/.

Eligibility criteria include: The applicant should be a Folk Artist/Troupe.
The applicant should be continuously performing in the programs.
The applicant should have performed in the programs for more than three years. The application process is as follows: The advertisement is published in the newspapers, calling for applications by the Tamil Nadu Eyal Isai Nataka Mandram.
Step 1: The interested applicant should visit (during office hours) the office Mandram and request a hard copy of the prescribed format of the application form from the concerned staff.
Step 2: In the application form, fill in all the mandatory fields, paste the passportsized photograph (signed across, if required), and attach copies of all the mandatory documents (selfattest, if required).
Step 3: Submit the duly filled and signed application form along with the documents to the Tamil Nadu Eyal Isai Nataka Mandram. 
Step 4: Request a receipt or acknowledgment from the concerned authority to whom the application has been submitted. Ensure that the receipt contains essential details such as the date and time of submission, and a unique identification number (if applicable). For more information, please refer to: Guidelines: https://www.tn.gov.in/rti/proactive/inftour/handbook_artculture.pdf Revised Rate: https://artandculture.tn.gov.in/schemes-implemented-tamil-nadu-eyal-isai-nataka-mandram Tags associated with the scheme include: Artist, Costume, Financial Assistance, Instrument, Music.