The name of this welfare scheme is Specialized Treatment & Medical Assistance Scheme (PBAOCWWB). It is also known as STMAS-PBAOCWWB. The &quot;Specialized Treatment &amp; Medical Assistance Scheme&quot; is a Welfare Scheme by the Puducherry Building and Other Construction Workers Welfare Board, Labour Department, Union Territory of Puducherry. The Board provides for upto ₹2,00,000/- for taking specialized medical treatment in Hospitals having tie-up with Government General Hospitals. The amount for the medical treatment is credited through Direct Benefit Transfer (DBT) into the bank account of the registered construction worker. The applications are accepted offline. The scheme targets beneficiaries such as Individual. It is specifically implemented in Puducherry. Additionally, the nodal department is Labour Department, Puducherry.

The scheme provides the following benefits: Financial Assistance of upto ₹2,00,000/for taking specialized medical treatment in Hospitals having tieups with Government General Hospitals.

Eligibility criteria include: The applicant should be a citizen of India.
The applicant should be registered as a Construction Worker with the Puducherry Building and Other Construction Workers Welfare Board.
The applicant should have completed the age of 18 years.
The applicant should not have completed the age of 60 years during the preceding 12 months in the construction work.
The beneficiary should be contributing to the Board&#39;s Fund.
The applicant should not have defaulted in payment of contribution to the Board for a continuous period of more than one year.
The applicant should have either met an accident or should be suffering from a disease such as Tuberculosis, Lung Issues, Neurological Disorders, etc. The application process is as follows: Step 1: The interested construction worker should visit the Office of the Puducherry Building and Other Construction Workers Welfare Board (Industrial Estate, Thattanchavady, Puducherry 605 009) and obtain the prescribed format of the application form free of cost from the concerned authority exclusively entrusted to issue and collect filledin applications.
OR
The interested construction worker should take print of the prescribed format of the application form provided in the section &quot;Application for Welfare Benefits&quot; on Page No. 83 of the Citizen&#39;s Charter.
Step 2: In the application form, fill in all the mandatory fields, paste the passportsized photograph (signed across, if required), and attach copies of all the mandatory documents (selfattest, if required).
Step 3: The interested construction worker should submit the duly filled and signed application form and the documents to the concerned authority.
Step 4: Request a receipt or acknowledgement from the concerned authority to whom the application form has been submitted. Ensure that the receipt contains essential details such as the date and time of submission, and a unique identification number (if applicable). For more information, please refer to: Guidelines (Page No. 71): https://labour.py.gov.in/sites/default/files/citizens-charter-2020.pdf Application Form (Page No. 83): https://labour.py.gov.in/sites/default/files/citizens-charter-2020.pdf Grievance Redressal (Page No. 131): https://labour.py.gov.in/sites/default/files/citizens-charter-2020.pdf Registration Process & Documents Required (Page No. 57): https://labour.py.gov.in/sites/default/files/citizens-charter-2020.pdf Tags associated with the scheme include: Accident, Construction, Disease, Hospital, Medical, Worker.