The name of this welfare scheme is Scheme for Providing (Golden Jubilee) One Time Grant-In-Aid in Memory of Blessed Mother Tereza. It is also known as SPGJOTGIAMBMT. &amp;quot;Scheme for Providing (Golden Jubilee) One Time Grant-In-Aid in Memory of Blessed Mother Tereza&amp;quot; by the Directorate of Art and Culture, Government of Goa, came into force with effect from 1st April 2011. The scheme aims to protect and support the thousands of children living in slums and on the streets of Goa, also orphans and runaways escaping poverty, neglect or abuse. These children are often at great risk from malnutrition, illness and neglect. These children, along with aged, destitute and disabled people need a helping hand in health care, shelter, food, clothing, free medication, human trafficking, aids consciousness etc. It is a bounden duty of the government to provide these basic necessities to the underprivileged section of society.
&lt;br&gt;

&gt; Objectives


   1. To provide support to underprivileged children, aged, destitute and disabled people.
   1. To recognize and strengthen the sustainable efforts put in by the various reputed institutions in providing meaningful, safe, playful environment, food, shelter, health care etc. for the upliftment of weaker sections of the society and to give an impetus, encouragement 
   1. and financial backing to them for their contribution in the field of the social sector.
   1. To support the institutions in the implementation of their programmes.
   1. To take care of all such types of underprivileged, downtrodden, neglected sections of society. The scheme targets beneficiaries such as University / Institution, NGO. It is specifically implemented in Goa. Additionally, the nodal department is Art, Culture and Museums Department.

The scheme provides the following benefits: An amount of ₹ 25,00,000 shall be sanctioned as a time grant to the selected institutions/NGOs as per clause (A).The quantum of financial assistance to the eligible institutions under clauses (B) &amp; (C) shall be as per the recommendation of the selection committee and the approval of the government.
Enhanced grants as per clause (C) shall be considered on a casetocase basis. However, the total grants in each case under the scheme shall not be more than ₹ 1,00,00,

Eligibility criteria include: List of Eligible Institutions/NGOs


> Clause (A)

Snehamandir, Ponda
Lokvishwas Pratishthan, Ponda
Sanjeevan, Ponda
Matruchhaya, Ponda
Kasturba Matoshri Trust, Panaji
Children’s Rights in Goa, Panaji
Sangat, Panaji
Jan Ugahi, Margao
Positive People, Panaji
Sethu, Panaji
Disha Charitable Trust, Panaji
Mother Teresa Sisters’, Panaji
Gujarati Samaj Educational Trust for Handicapped, Margao
Caritas, St Francis Xavier’s Academy, Old Goa
Daddy’s Home, Margao
Asha Deep, Vasco
Arz, Vasco
Chetana Charitable Trust, Curchorem
Navjot Rehabilitation, Thivim
Shanti Avedna Ashram, Loutolim
Nitya Seva Niketan, Rivona
Keshav Seva Sadhana’s Narayan Zantye School for special children
Caritas Asro, Thivim
Jyot Society, Margao
Mother Mary Heaven, Calangute
Divine Providence, Benaulim
Indian Red Cross Society, Panaji
Lar Santa Margarita, Diwar
Lar de Santa Teresa, Margao


> Clause (B)

Other Institutions/NGOs not covered in the list above shall be eligible for the grant subject to the following conditions:
The Institution/NGOs shall submit applications for the grants under the scheme in the prescribed proforma.
The Institution/NGOs should be registered with the state government registration authorities.
The Institution/NGOs should be in existence for a minimum period of 05 years. 
Should have been providing humanitarian service to a minimum of 25 inmates (Old, sick, underprivileged children etc.) for the last 5 years. 
The Institution/NGOs should have infrastructure facilities of spacious accommodation of a minimum area of 50 sq. mts. with proper ventilation, toilet, kitchen etc.
The Institution/NGOs should furnish a copy of the constitution/bye laws of the institution.


> Clause (C)

The aforementioned Institutions/NGOs are eligible for enhanced grants considered on specific proposals on case to case basis subject to the following conditions:
The Institutions/NGOs shall submit a specific proposal for sanction of additional grants supported by proper documentation. 
The proposal shall be restricted to the area of their operations as per the approved constitution/bye laws of the institution. 
The proposals shall be specifically towards activities related to the upliftment of underprivileged children, sick, aged, disabled, destitute etc.
The total grants under the scheme shall however be not more than ₹ 1,00,00, The application process is as follows: Step 1: The interested Institution/NGO should visit the Directorate Of Art &amp; Culture, Government of Goa, 5th Floor, Shram Shakti Bhavan, Panaji, Patto, Panaji, Goa 403001
Step 2: Take a print of the proforma of the application form, or request a hard copy from the concerned authority.
Step 3: In the application form, fill in all the mandatory fields, paste the passportsized photograph (signed across), and attach copies of all the mandatory documents (selfattest if required).
Step 4: Submit the duly filled and signed application form along with the documents to the ADC, Directorate of Art &amp; Culture, Phone: 08322404642, Email: adcdac.goa@nic.in For more information, please refer to: Citizen's Charter: https://www.goa.gov.in/wp-content/uploads/2022/06/Chitizen-Charter-2022-2023-art-and-culture.pdf Guidelines: https://www.artandculture.goa.gov.in/en/schemes-programmesgrants/mother-tereza-scheme Official Gazette: https://goaprintingpress.gov.in/downloads/1011/1011-53-SI-OG.pdf Tags associated with the scheme include: Destitute, Disability, Grant, Malnutrition, NGO, Orphan, Shelter.