The name of this welfare scheme is High Risk - High Reward Research. It is also known as HR-HRR. The Scheme “High Risk - High Reward Research” is implemented by the Science and Engineering Research Board, Department of Science and Technology, Government of India with the aim to support proposals that are conceptually new and risky, and if successful, expected to have a paradigm-shifting influence on the S&amp;amp;T. This may be in terms of formulating a new hypothesis, or scientific breakthroughs which aid in emergence of new technologies. 
&gt; Nature of Proposals to be Supported:

The scheme is aimed at supporting proposals that are new, challenge existing hypothesis, and provide &amp;#39;out of box&amp;#39; thinking on important problems. It should contain significant risk elements but promise of high reward if the difficulties could be circumvented. It is expected that the success of such proposals will have far-reaching implications in S&amp;amp;T. Outcome could be new and significant theoretical or experimental advances, formulation of new hypothesis, or breakthrough science which will lead to new technologies. Proposals that address scientific issues which will result in &amp;#39;incremental&amp;#39; knowledge will not be supported. Ideally, the proposal must contain bold research ideas which will have wide-ranging impact and potential for new scientific and technological innovations.
&gt; Duration of Support:

The funding is provided normally for a period of three years. In exceptional cases, the duration can be up to 5 years as assessed by the expert committee. The scheme targets beneficiaries such as Individual. The implementing agency is Science And Engineering Research Board, Government Of India. Additionally, the nodal ministry is Ministry Of Science And Technology and the nodal department is Department Of Science & Technology.

The scheme provides the following benefits: No budget limit is prescribed for this type of project.
The research grant covers equipment, consumables, contingency and travel apart from overhead grants.

Eligibility criteria include: Applicant should be an Indian citizen residing in India.
   The applicant(s) must hold a regular academic/research position in a recognized institution.
   The proposals can be submitted by an individual or by a team of investigators. Proposals submitted by a team of investigators must identify a Principal Investigator, who will spearhead the research objectives and administer the grant. The application process is as follows: Step 01: The call for proposals will be notified through the website www.serbonline.in and www.serb.gov.in
Step 02: Applicant(s) should first register into the online website. Click here to register
Step 03: After login, go to Menu &amp;gt; Proposal Submission &amp;gt; Form Submission. Select the scheme &amp;quot;High Risk High Reward (HRR)&amp;quot; and Click on the &amp;quot;Start Submission&amp;quot; Button.
Step 04: If you have COPI in your proposal then it is to be ensured that all the COPI are registered in the SERB online portal and have filled all mandatory fields in the &amp;quot;Profile Details&amp;quot; section under &amp;quot;Menu&amp;quot; &amp;gt;&amp;quot;User Profile&amp;quot; after login.
Step 05: Some of the details of your proposal like Project Title (max 500 characters), Project summary (max 3000 characters), Keywords (max 6), Objectives of the project (max 1500 characters), Expected output, and outcome of the proposal (max 1500 characters), Budget (Research Personnel, Consumables, Travel, Equipment, Contingency, Overheads ) have to be entered at the time of proposal submission.
Note: The proposals will be evaluated through peer review processes as approved by the Board.
Complete guideline for Principal Investigator for SERBonline system For more information, please refer to: Official Website: https://serbonline.in/SERB/HRR Website- India Science, Technology & Innovation: https://www.indiascienceandtechnology.gov.in/funding-opportunities/research-grants/institutional/high-risk-high-reward-research Tags associated with the scheme include: High Reward, High Risk, Project, Research, Research Grant.