The name of this welfare scheme is Chief Minister’s Comprehensive Health Insurance Scheme - Tamil Nadu. It is also known as CMCHIS-TN. The &quot;Chief Minister’s Comprehensive Health Insurance Scheme&quot; was launched by the Department for the Welfare of Differently Abled Persons, Govt. of Tamil Nadu. To achieve the objective of universal health care government has implemented a comprehensive health insurance scheme to benefit differently abled persons. Under this scheme, all the differently abled persons and their family members are enrolled without any income ceiling. The scheme targets beneficiaries such as Individual, Family. It is specifically implemented in Tamil Nadu. Additionally, the nodal department is Welfare of Differently Abled Persons Department.

The scheme provides the following benefits: Comprehensive health insurance scheme to benefit differently abled persons.

Eligibility criteria include: Any one member of the family should be a differently abled person.
The differently abled person should be a resident of Tamil Nadu. The application process is as follows: Step 1: The interested applicant should visit (during office hours) the insurance office in the Collectorate and request a hard copy of the prescribed format of the application form from the staff exclusively entrusted to issue and collect filledin applications.
Step 2: In the application form, fill in all the mandatory fields, and attach copies of all the mandatory documents (selfattest, if required).
Step 3: Submit the duly filled and signed application form along with the documents to the District Differently Abled Welfare Officer.
Step 4: Request a receipt or acknowledgment from the District Differently Abled Welfare Officer to whom the application has been submitted. Ensure that the receipt contains essential details such as the date and time of submission, and a unique identification number (if applicable). For more information, please refer to: Citizen's Charter (2022): https://cms.tn.gov.in/sites/default/files/documents/wda_e_cc_2022_23.pdf Tags associated with the scheme include: Differently Abled Person, Family, Health, Insurance.