The name of this welfare scheme is "Training in Handicrafts" Component of the "Development Of Handicrafts" Scheme. It is also known as TIHCDOHS. The &quot;Training in Handicrafts&quot; Component of the &quot;Development Of Handicrafts&quot; Scheme by the Department of Industries and Commerce, Government of Puducherry, aims to create better employment opportunities and enhance the livelihood of the rural poor. The training adopts a Gurukulam model, emphasizing learning the craft within its environment. The scheme targets beneficiaries such as Individual. It is specifically implemented in Puducherry. Additionally, the nodal department is Industries and Commerce Department, Puducherry.

The scheme provides the following benefits: Trainees will receive a stipend of ₹1,500 per month.


Master craftspersons will be compensated with an honorarium of ₹300 per trainee (up to ₹3,000 per month), and ₹150 per trainee per month for raw material wastage (up to ₹1,500 per month).

The Training commences in December and is for a period of 6 months.


> Crafts Practiced

Soapstone carving, Pith Craft, Tapestry, Wood carving, Bronze Icon, Serpentine stone carving, Terracotta, Tanjore Painting, Leather goods, Crochet, Paper Machine, Hand Printed Textile, Shell items, Palm Leaf articles, Embroidery and appliqué works, Mat Weaving, Batik Printing, Pottery/Clay toys/Ceramic, Miniature painting &amp; printing, Cloth &amp; Stuffed dolls, Decorative wax candles, Hand knitted Hammacks, Cane &amp; Bamboo, Semiprecious stones and jewellery, Glazed art pottery, Dry flowers, Lampshade Jute and paper, Wire craft, Fibre craft.

Eligibility criteria include: The applicant should be a native of the Union Territory of Puducherry or a continuous resident for the past three years.
The applicant should be between 18 and 35 years of age. The application process is as follows: Step 1: The interested applicant should take print of the prescribed format of the application form.
Step 2: In the application form, fill in all the mandatory fields, paste the passportsized photograph (signed across, if required), and attach copies of all the mandatory documents (selfattest, if required).
Step 3: The interested applicant should visit (on a working day, and during office hours) the Project Manager (Cottage Industries), and submit the duly filled and signed application form and the documents to the concerned authority.
Step 4: On receipt of the application, necessary entries will be made in the application receipt register and a unique number is assigned to the applicant for identifying each applicant which shall be used for all further references and also as acknowledgement for the receipt of the application. For more information, please refer to: Guidelines: https://dic.py.gov.in/development-of-handicrafts Citizen's Charter: https://dic.py.gov.in/sites/default/files/citizencharter.pdf Application Form: https://dic.py.gov.in/sites/default/files/handicrafts.doc Contact Us: https://dic.py.gov.in/contact-us Grievance Redressal: https://industry.py.gov.in/grievance-redressal-mechanism Tags associated with the scheme include: Craft, Handicrafts, Stipend, Trainee, Training.