The name of this welfare scheme is RMEWF-Financial Assistance For Education Of Children & Widows Of Ex-Servicemen. It is also known as RMEWF - EDUCATION. A scheme to provide financial assistance to Ex-Servicemen and their widows for helping them in educating their child (for maximum two children) up to graduation and also for widows to pursue Post Graduation degree.


Aim of this scheme is to provide financial assistance to up to a maximum of two dependent children of those ESM or their widows, up to the ranks of Havildar in the Army and equivalent in the Navy and Air Force, who are not in receipt of such benefit from from the State or his Employer. It is also applicable to widows for post-graduation degree course. The scheme targets beneficiaries such as Individual. Additionally, the nodal ministry is Ministry Of Defence.

It falls under the categories: Education & Learning.

Eligibility criteria include: The eligibility criteria for availing financial assistance under this scheme are as follows:Applicant must be an ESM/ widow/Orphan dependent.
Should be of rank Havildar/equivalent and below.
The scheme is applicable for classes 1 to 12 of school and undergraduate classes of a degree college. This grant is also admissible to widows who wish to pursue 2year post graduate degree. The ward/widow shall complete the course successfully.
The applicant should not be drawing education allowance or similar benefit from the State or is employer.
The scheme is eligible for only first two children. However, in case of twin children, below mentioned condition shall be applicable:In case the 1st and 2nd children are twins only twins will be eligible as maximum two children are permitted.
In case 2nd and 3rd children are twins both will be eligible for education financial assistance alongwith 1st. Thus the ESM can avail for three children subject to fulfilment of above mentioned criteria.


In case of unfortunate demise of 1st or 2nd child. In case of unfortunate demise of 1st child, 2nd and 3rd children as mentioned in discharge book will be eligible. Similarly in case of demise of 2nd child, the 3rd child will be eligible as mentioned in discharge book. The death certificate will be uploaded as supporting document with online application for scrutiny. For more information, please refer to: Scheme Guidelines: https://ksb.gov.in/education-of-Children-Widows-of-esm.htm Tags associated with the scheme include: Ex-Servicemen, Grant, Wards Of Ex-Servicemen, Widow Of Ex-Servicemen.