The name of this welfare scheme is Financial Assistance For Procuring Mobility Equipment To Disabled Ex-Servicemen (All Ranks). It is also known as FAPMEDESMAR. The scheme &amp;quot;Financial Assistance For Procuring Mobility Equipment To Disabled Ex-Servicemen(All Ranks)&amp;quot; by the Department of Ex-Servicemen Welfare of the Ministry of Defence, provide financial assistance for the procurement of modified scooter for those Ex-Servicemen (ESM), who are disabled after their retirement from service with disability of 50% or more. After their retirement, most of the ESMs continue to be engaged in physically challenging activities/work. Some of them unfortunately become handicapped due to accidents etc after their retirement and need mobility equipment such as modified scooters, crutches and wheelchairs to carry on with their life. To procure mobility requirements, the Kendriya Sainik Board (KSB) provides financial assistance to disabled ESMs from the Armed Forces Flag Day Fund (AFFDF). The scheme targets beneficiaries such as Individual. Additionally, the nodal ministry is Ministry Of Defence and the nodal department is Department of Ex-Servicemen Welfare.

The scheme provides the following benefits: A financial assistance of a maximum of ₹ 1,00,The beneficiary can reapply for new mobility equipment after the lapse of 10 years from the date of purchase of the previous equipment.

Eligibility criteria include: The applicant should be an ExServiceman.
The applicant should be disabled after retirement from the service.
The percentage of the disability should be 50% or more.
The applicant should not be covered under a similar scheme of the Army/Navy/Air Force.
The application of the applicant should be recommended by the respective Zila Sainik Board (ZSB).
The applicant should be capable of personally utilizing the mobility equipment provided. The application process is as follows: Step 1: In the Registration Form, fill in all the mandatory fields and upload the required documents.
Step 2: Fill in the verification code, and click &quot;Submit&quot; to complete your registration.
Step 3: Take a print of the submitted registration form, attach the selfattested copies of the required documents, and submit the same at the respective ZSB.


> PostApplication Processes

Step 1: The Zila Sainik Welfare Office (ZSWO) will scrutinize the application, and if found correct in all respects, will forward it directly to Kendriya Sainik Board (KSB) Secretariat for payment.
Step 2: On receipt at the KSB Secretariat, the Welfare SectioninCharge will assign the application to a particular clerk who will enter desired data from the applications into the computer. Another clerk will be designated to check the correctness of the entries. 
Step 3: The SectioninCharge will verify the same and put up the case in the relevant file for processing to JD(Welfare) who will obtain the approval of the Secretary, KSB.
Step 4: After approval at KSB, the application will be processed for payment.


> Track Application Status

Step 1: Visit the Official Website of the Kendriya Sainik Board (KSB) and click the “Status of Application”.
Step 2: Enter your DAK ID and the verification code. Click on the “Search” button to check the status of your application. For more information, please refer to: Guidelines: https://ksb.gov.in/procuring-mobility-equipment.htm Sample Application Form: https://ksb.gov.in/writereaddata/DownLoad/M-1.pdf Application Authorization Flow: https://ksb.gov.in/writereaddata/DownLoad/Welfare_Application_Authorization_Flow.pdf Check Application Status: https://ksb.gov.in/status-of-application.htm Tags associated with the scheme include: ESM, Ex-Servicemen, Handicapped, Person With Disability, Sainik.