The name of this welfare scheme is Award of Pre-matric Scholarship to the Students Whose Parents Are Engaged in Unclean Occupation. It is also known as APMSSPEUO. The scheme &quot;Award of Pre-matric Scholarship to the Students Whose Parents Are Engaged in Unclean Occupation” by the Adi Dravidar Welfare Department, Government of Puducherry, provides scholarships to the students whose parents are engaged in unclean occupation (scavenger, Flayers &amp; Tarner) to improve the status of the unprivileged society. The scheme provides scholarships irrespective of income and caste. The scheme targets beneficiaries such as Individual. It is specifically implemented in Puducherry. Additionally, the nodal department is Adi Dravidar Welfare Department, Puducherry.

The scheme provides the following benefits: ₹1850/per annum.

Eligibility criteria include: The applicant should be from a Scheduled Caste.
The applicant should be a Student.
The applicant should be studying in Class 1st to Class 10th.
The applicant should be a Native/Resident of the Union Territory of Puducherry.
Either or both the parents of the applicant should be engaged in unclean occupation (Scavenger/ Flayer/ Tarner). The application process is as follows: Step 1: The interested applicant should visit (during office hours) the Office/ SubOffice of the Adi Dravidar Welfare and Scheduled Tribes Welfare Department, and request the hard copy of the prescribed format of the application form from the staff exclusively entrusted to issue and collect filledin applications.
Step 2: In the application form, fill in all the mandatory fields, paste the passportsized photograph (signed across, if required), and attach copies of all the mandatory documents (selfattest, if required).
Step 3: Submit the duly filled and signed application form along with the documents to the concerned authority.
Step 4: Request a receipt or acknowledgment from the concerned authority to whom the application has been submitted. Ensure that the receipt contains essential details such as the date and time of submission, and a unique identification number (if applicable). For more information, please refer to: Guidelines: https://adwelfare.py.gov.in/award-pre-matric-scholarship-students-whose-parents-are-engaged-unclean-occupation Citizen's Charter: https://py.gov.in/sites/default/files/citizencharter-adidravidar.pdf Contact Us: https://adwelfare.py.gov.in/contact-us Tags associated with the scheme include: Financial Assistance, Scavengers, Scholarship, Student.