The name of this welfare scheme is Educational Assistance For Children Of Victims Of Crime. It is also known as EACVC. The scheme “Educational Assistance for Children of Victims of Crime” was launched by the Department of Social Justice, Government of Kerala. In order to strengthen the victim support services in the State, the Government of Kerala has launched this scheme which provides educational assistance for children of survivors (victims) of crime. The dependents of survivors (victims) including children find it difficult to continue their studies due to financial constraints since the family has to meet the treatment expenses.
    Survivors (Victims) of crime are defined as those who suffer out of a crime and for no fault of their own. Being a survivor (victim) of a crime can be a shocking and harrowing experience. The trauma of victimization can have a devastating impact on crime survivors (victims) and their loved ones; especially children. The survivors (victims) and their families go through tremendous stress and suffer financially, socially, and psychologically. The scheme targets beneficiaries such as Individual. It is specifically implemented in Kerala. The implementing agency is District Probation Office, Kerala. Additionally, the nodal department is Social Justice Department.

The scheme provides the following benefits: Under the scheme, the following financial assistance will be given to the eligible applicant:

Sl. No.Classes/CoursesAmount of Assistance1Children studying in classes 1 to 5₹3000/per year2Children studying in classes 6 to 10₹5000/per year3Higher Secondary₹7500/per year4Graduate students₹10,000/per year5PG/M.Phil course students₹15,000/per yearNote: The amount will be transferred to the joint account of the child and the current parent.

Eligibility criteria include: The applicant should be a native and resident of Kerala State.
   The children/dependents of survivors (victims) of crime are eligible to apply under the scheme.
   The combined annual income of the families should be less than ₹1,00,000/.
   The children pursuing a degree and higher education courses in government and aided institutions and admitted to merit seats in unaided institutions are eligible for financial assistance in courses from the degree level onwards.

Note: If granted for one year, the amount can be granted in subsequent years if the head of the school or college or the head of the newly joined institution certifies that the child will continue his education. The application process is as follows: Registration Process:
Step 01: To avail of the benefits of the scheme, the applicant needs to visit SUNEETHIOnline Service Application Portal
Step 02: On the home page, click on “One time Registration”
Step 03: Fill in the details like Name, Email ID &amp;amp; Mobile Number and click on ‘Register’.
Step 04: The applicant needs to enter the verification code received on the mobile number and click on ‘Verify’.
Step 05: Now, a form will open to create the new profile, fill in all the mandatory details and click on ‘Register’.
Login Application Process: 
Step 01: Once the registration process is completed, the applicant should visit SUNEETHIOnline Service Application Portal and click on “Citizen Login”.
Step 02: Enter the user name i.e. Mobile Number and Password and click on “Sign in”.
Step 03: Now, the applicant needs to update all their details i.e. Personal Information, Contact Details, Identity Cards &amp;amp; Bank Details by clicking on the &amp;#39;Edit&amp;#39; button.
Step 04: Once the applicant updated their profile successfully, the schemes will appear on the left side of the screen.
Step 05: Select the scheme and click on the “Apply Now” button.
Step 06: Fill in all the mandatory details in the application form and click on the ‘Submit’ button. Step 01: To avail of the benefits of the scheme, the applicant needs to visit the official website of the Social Justice Department, Government of Kerala to download the application form.
Step 02: The applicant needs to fill out the application form completely.
Step 03: The duly filled application form along with supporting documents has to be forwarded through the District Probation Officer. 
Note 01: For further information please contact the concerned District Probation Officer.
Note 02: The application must be made to the District Probation Office within 5 years of the actual offense. For more information, please refer to: Official Website: http://sjd.kerala.gov.in/scheme-info.php?scheme_id=MTU3c1Y4dXFSI3Z5 Application Form: http://sjd.kerala.gov.in/DOCUMENTS/Downloadables/Application%20Forms/30719.pdf Order/Notice: http://sjd.kerala.gov.in/DOCUMENTS/Order_new/GOs/30693.pdf Tags associated with the scheme include: Children, Dependent, Education, Scholarship, Survivor, Victim.