The name of this welfare scheme is Financial Assistance To Gad-Hanjis. It is also known as FAGH. In the &quot;Financial Assistance to Gad-Hanjis&quot;, financial assistance for the purchase of Nylon Twine is provided to the Licensed Fisherman (Gad-Hanjis) by the Social Welfare Department. The beneficiary shall approach the concerned District Social Welfare Officer (DSWO) for submission of the application. This is a 100% State Sponsored Scheme, and only the permanent residents of the state of Jammu &amp; Kashmir can apply for this scheme. The scheme targets beneficiaries such as Individual. It is specifically implemented in Jammu and Kashmir. The implementing agency is District Social Welfare Offices (DSWO) Of The Department Of Social Welfare, Union Territory Of Jammu & Kashmir. Additionally, the nodal department is Department Of Social Welfare J and K.

The scheme provides the following benefits: The financial assistance for the purchase of Nylon Twine will be sanctioned at the following rates:
License holders having paid fee of ₹ 50/: ₹ 500/.
License holders having paid fee of ₹ 40/: ₹ 400/.
License holders having paid fee of ₹ 30/: ₹ 300/.
License holders having paid fee of ₹ 20/: ₹ 200/.

Eligibility criteria include: The applicant should be a citizen of India.
The applicant should be a GadHanji (Fisherman) licensed by the Fisheries Department consecutively for the last 3 years.
The annual income of the applicant should not exceed ₹ 3,600/.
The applicant should not have received assistance under this scheme during the last 2 years. The application process is as follows: Step 1: Visit the District Social Welfare Office, and request a hard copy of the format of the application form for the scheme from the concerned authority.
Step 2: In the application form, fill in all the mandatory fields, paste the passportsized photograph (signed across), and attach all the (selfattested) mandatory documents.
Step 3: Submit the duly filled and signed application form along with the documents to the District Social Welfare Officer.
Step 4: Acquire the receipt/acknowledgment of the successful submission of the application form from the District Social Welfare Office.


> PostApplication Processes:

Step 1: On receipt of the application duly completed by the applicant, the DSWO shall consolidate the list and forward it to the District Level Sanctioning Committee.
Step 2: The District Level Sanctioning Committee shall consider the cases and issue appropriate orders within one month to the District Social Welfare Officer.
Step 3: On the basis of approval of the Committee, the DSWO shall issue sanctions to the grant of financial assistance for onward disbursement among the sanctioned beneficiaries.



> Check Application Status:

The District Social Welfare Officer (DSWO) can be contacted regarding the application status of the scheme. For more information, please refer to: Guidelines: https://socialwelfarekashmir.jk.gov.in/FAGH.html Application Process: https://jksabwdobcs.com/pdf/gov_schemes.pdf Tags associated with the scheme include: Financial Assistance, Fisherman, Social Welfare.