The name of this welfare scheme is Vikaas-Day Care Scheme For Person with Disability Children. It is also known as VDCSPDS. Vikaas is a Day care scheme, launched by the Department of Empowerment of Persons with Disabilities , Ministry of Social Justice &amp; Empowerment. Govt. of India, primarily to expand the range of opportunities available to a person with disability attaining the age of 10 years for enhancing interpersonal and vocational skills as they are on a transition to higher age groups.Registered Organisation(RO) centre will also offer caregiving support to Person with Disability(PwD) during the time the PwD is in the Vikaas centre. In addition it also helps in supporting family members of the PwDs with disabilities covered under the National Trust Act to get some time during the day to fulfil other responsibilities. The scheme targets beneficiaries such as Individual. Additionally, the nodal ministry is Ministry Of Social Justice and Empowerment and the nodal department is Department Of Empowerment Of Persons With Disabilities.

The scheme provides the following benefits: Day Care: RO should provide daycare facilities to PwDs for at least 6 hours in a day(between 8 am to 6 pm) along with age specific activities.Staffing: Interpersonal and vocational skills would be provided for the betterment of the children.Counselling: Counselling and guidance especially for Activities for Daily Living (ADL)must be provided to parents or guardians of PwDs. RO should provide assistance to PwDs for further training, education and employment.Transport Facilities (OPTIONAL): RO can also provide transportation facilities to PwDs in case it so desires. The National Trust will provide additional transport allowance to RO only for PwDs who are availing transport facilities provided by RO.

Eligibility criteria include: Beneficiary should be of the age of 10 years or more
Beneficiary should have one of the disabilities under the  National Trust Act, 1999, which are Autism, Cerebral Palsy, Mental Retardation and Multiple Disabilitities.Beneficiary should not be simultaneously enrolled under Samarth or Gharaunda scheme. The application process is as follows: Beneficiary provides necessary proofs at the Vikaas Centre.Individual Assessment Test conducted for children aged Fit for school: Parents guided on school options or National Trust schemes.
  Interested in Vikaas Centre: Proceed to Step All applicant ( Including below 14 and above 14 years of age) interested in Vikas centers 

  Check eligibility for LIG or BPL funding if enrolling in Vikaas Centre.
  Submit Enrolment Form with required documents for verification.
  Upon successful verification, PwD enrolled with ID card and starter kit. Details about the centre provided by Vikaas representatives.
  Inform beneficiary about Niramaya health insurance scheme, assist with registration if interested NGO logs in to the National Trust website.Online submission of the Vikaas scheme application form with a fee of ₹1,000/.
National Trust verifies documents, provides 15 days for additional information if needed.

  Physical verification documents can be submitted during or after online enrolment.

Final decision made based on formalities and Physical Verification Report. Approval granted if criteria met; discrepancies communicated to RO.
National Trust communicates with RO within 45 days from receipt. Missing information addressed within 10 days.
If hard copy not received within 15 days, National Trust notifies RO within 10 days of the deadline (within 25 days from receipt).
Enrolment completed, scheme ID created, and confirmation communicated to RO.
Starter kit/Vikaas handbook with scheme details provided to the RO.
National Trust initiates fund disbursement for RO setup costs. For more information, please refer to: Guidelines: https://thenationaltrust.gov.in/upload/uploadfiles/files/vikas_eng.pdf RO Center: https://thenationaltrust.gov.in/content/centre-sanctioned-list.php Tags associated with the scheme include: Child, Counselling, Person With Disability, Special Care.