The name of this welfare scheme is Chief Minister’s Krishi Samuh Yojana. It is also known as CMKSY. Institutional architecture under &amp;quot;Chief Minister’s Krishi Samuh Yojana&amp;quot; is based on the fund flow and expenditure mechanism. It focuses on the Formation &amp;amp; Nurturing of Farmers&amp;#39; Producer&amp;#39;s Organizations (FPO).
Objective:
       To empower the farmers through a cooperative approach by Institutionalisation of the Farmers’ Producers’ Organisation and infusing timely support of good agriculture practices and marketing interventions for better price realization and doubling the farmer’s income.
Important Features:

- State and district-level society for planning, administration, implementation, and monitoring
- A digital directory of farmers associated with this organization is to be created.
- Participation of FPOs in buyers and sellers meet/Agri-Horti expo across the country
- Eligible projects to be undertaken under CMKSY

       a.  Organic Farming Activities
       b.  Employment generation in Animal Husbandry Sector
       c.   Employment generation in Fisheries Sector
       d.  Activities under Agri-Horti Sector
       e.  Other Innovative Projects The scheme targets beneficiaries such as Registered Societies, Individual. It is specifically implemented in Arunachal Pradesh. The implementing agency is District Agricultural Office. Additionally, the nodal department is Agriculture and Marketing Department.

It falls under the categories: Agriculture,Rural & Environment.

Eligibility criteria include: The applicant should be a permanent resident of Arunachal Pradesh.
All categories of farmers (Marginal, Small, Medium, and Large farmers) are eligible to apply under the scheme.
50 FPOs either as societies or companies in the State are eligible to apply under this scheme.
FPO should be a registered body (Opened under Societies Act, Cooperative Society Act, or Company’s Act).
FPOs should have an active bank account for a minimum of 6 months.
Resolution of the FPO board/ Governing Council to seek revolving fund
Note: Revolving funds should be used only for the purpose for which the FPO was formed vizaviz production, growth, and marketing. For more information, please refer to: Website: https://westsiang.nic.in/scheme/chief-ministers-krishi-samuh-yojana-cm-ksy/ Guideline: https://ahvdd.arunachal.gov.in/pdf/eBook/Government%20Scheme%20Handbook.pdf Tags associated with the scheme include: Agriculture, Farmer, Farmers Producer’s Organization, Financial Assistance.