The name of this welfare scheme is VAIshwik BHArtiya Vaigyanik (VAIBHAV) Fellowship. It is also known as VAIBHAV. The “Vaishvik Bharatiya Vaigyanik (VAIBHAV) Fellowship” is a new programme which is implemented by the Department of Science &amp;amp; Technology, Ministry of Science and Technology, Government of India. This programme envisages collaboration between scientists of the Indian Diaspora with Indian Higher Educational Institutions (HEIs), Universities and/or Public Funded Scientific Institutions. The VAIBHAV Fellow would identify an Indian Institution for collaboration and may spend up to two months in a year for a maximum of 3 years.
Research areas under which applications may be submitted:
Proposals are sought in select identified verticals and horizontals of VAIBHAV (as mentioned in
the preamble):

   1. Quantum Technologies: Quantum Communication; Quantum Computing; Quantum Sensing and Metrology; Quantum Materials and Devices
   1. Artificial Intelligence and Machine Learning: Foundation of AI/ML; AI/ML and Signals; AI for Social Good; AI and Robotics
   1. Computational Sciences: High-Performance Computing Architectures; Computational Atmospheric Sciences; Cyber-Physical Systems
   1. Data Sciences: Data Science Project Management; Data Science Infrastructure, Deployment and Hosting; Data Privacy and Security; Data Science Education; Data Science Applications
   1. Photonics: Photonic Devices; Optical Imaging and Bio-photonics; Photonic Materials and Sources; Nano-photonics; Integrated Photonics and Communication
   1. Energy: Future Electricity Systems; Sustainable Mobility Technologies; Advanced Fossil Technologies; Sustainable Future Fuels
   1. Electronics and Semiconductor Technologies: Semiconductor Materials and Process Technologies; Semiconductor Devices: Physics and Technology; Electronic Circuits and System Design
   1. Communication Technologies: Cellular Evolution 5G and Beyond (THz Comm); Communication Technologies for IoT/CPS; High-Speed Optical Communication – backbone networks; Cognitive Technologies for Futuristic Communication
   1. Aerospace Technologies: Aerospace Systems and Design; Propulsion Technologies; Flight Structure and Integrity; Modeling and Simulations; Unmanned Aerial Systems and Countermeasures 
   1. Materials and Processing Technologies: Structural Materials; Materials Recycling &amp;amp; Purification; Advanced &amp;amp; Functional Materials; Catalytic Materials &amp;amp; Processes; Computational Materials Science
   1. Earth Sciences: Atmospheric Science; Polar Science; Ocean Science/Technology; Geo Science/Technology
   1. Environmental Sciences: Air Quality Management; Water Quality Management; Soil and Waste Management; Carbon Sequestration and Biodiversity Conservation; Climate Change
   1. Advanced Manufacturing Technologies: Smart Manufacturing, IoT, Digital Manufacturing; Additive Manufacturing; Precision/Micro-nano Manufacturing/Surface Engineering; Industrial Machines, Robotics/Automation; Speciality Products Manufacturing
   1. Health, Medical Sciences and Biomedical Devices: Advanced Technologies in Health Care; Precision Health; Holistic Health; Remote and Rural Health - Reaching the Unreached
   1. Pharmaceuticals and Bio-Technology: Biotherapeutics and Biosimilars; Industrial Biotechnology; Infectious Diseases/ Disease biology; Drug Discovery, Repurposing and Drug delivery
   1. Agricultural Sciences: Precision Agriculture; Sustainable and Climate Smart Agriculture; Food Safety and Nutritional Security; Climate Resilient Livestock, Veterinary Therapeutics and Zoonoses control, Nanotechnology in sustainable agriculture and metabolic biology, Modern Fisheries and Aquaculture and seed production, Genome editing, Robotics, farm automation, Digital Agriculture
   1. Social Sciences for SDGs: Behavioral Community Approaches &amp;amp; its impact on Societal Development; Societal aspect of Technology Development with cause; Socio-Economic aspect of Development
   1. Management: Fostering academic collaborations; Mechanisms to increase R&amp;amp;D outputs from Indian institutions; Business innovation; Entrepreneurship for growth; Management of New-Age (Knowledge) Organizations; Making India R&amp;amp;D center of the world / Making India Center of Practice-Oriented Management Knowledge The scheme targets beneficiaries such as Individual, University / Institution. The implementing agency is Department Of Science & Technology, Ministry Of Science And Technology. Additionally, the nodal ministry is Ministry Of Science And Technology and the nodal department is Department Of Science & Technology.

The scheme provides the following benefits: &gt; Emoluments for the Fellowship:


  Fellowship in ₹4,00,000/roughly (equivalent to USD 5000 per month), for a minimum of 1 month and a maximum of up to 2 months per year for a period of a maximum of 3 years,
  International Travel from place of work in parent institute to place of work in India in business class once a year,
  Fully furnished Accommodation in the guest house or hotel up to ₹7500/per day,
  Contingency ₹1,00,000 per year for research expenditure in India


  Domestic Travel (economy class) for academic purposes up to two Indian academic/scientific institutes in a year.

Note: It may be noted that the total eligible grant will be released to the Indian host Institute and these institutes will be providing a Fellowship amount to the VAIBHAV Fellow and extend other support.
&gt; Institutional Financial Support:

The financial support (up to ₹5 Lakhs per year for 3 years) will be given to the host institution to facilitate the VAIBHAV fellow for research work as per DST norms. This funding will cover the following expenses in connection with a project;

  Consumables and Accessories,
  Contingency
  Institutional Overhead

Eligibility criteria include: &gt; Eligibility: (For applicantsVAIBHAV Fellow):


   NonResident Indian (NRI), Persons of Indian Origin (PIO), and Overseas Citizen of India (OCI), currently working abroad.
   Ph.D/M.D/M.S/M.Tech degree from a recognized University.
   Engaged in active research.
   Working/worked in an Institute/University of top200 QS World University Ranking (subject wise) (in regular/tenure employment) for at least 5 years or more. OR
   Working in Industry or Research Laboratories of repute in abroad for at least 5 years or more (but should not be a PhD or Postdoctoral fellow).

&gt; Eligibility: (For host Indian Institutions):


   Higher Educational Institution/University ranked in the top 200 in NIRF overall rankings or having NAAC ‘A+’ grade or above and/or
   Public Funded Scientific Institutes/National Laboratories.

Expectations from the VAIBHAV fellow:

  Sharing the Best Practices on research and translation of research, incubation, etc.
  Build longterm connections,
  Connect Indian Students to the foreign faculty/scientists
  New approaches to Research processes and futuristic technologies
  VAIBHAV Fellow is expected to give a report to DST within 21 days of completion of travel indicating work done/initiated, followup required, etc.

Expectations from Host Institution:
The host institute will host the scientist and provide office/lab facilities, consumables, access to lab equipment, and facilitation for various infrastructure support. The following activities will be done by the host faculty/scientist:

  Will start a project/technology translation/startup/incubation which should be aligned with the priorities area of the country
  The VAIBHAV fellow would collaborate with the Indian scientist team during his visit and beyond via online meetings.
  The host institution would implement the project within 3 years in consultation with a VAIBHAV fellow.
  The host Institution would submit the progress report and financial documents to DST at the end of each year and a project completion report at the end of 3rd year. The reports need to be jointly prepared by the host and the VAIBHAV fellow.
  Host institute will adapt the shared best practices
  Will build the longterm research connections with the fellow
  Will develop a new approach to research processes and try to develop new technologies/innovation etc. The application process is as follows: &gt; Application Process:

Step 01: The application should be submitted online to the Department of Science and Technology (DST).
Step 02: The applicant can download the proposal formats of the VAIBHAV Fellowship from websites https://dst.gov.in/  or https://onlinedst.gov.in/Projectproposalformat.aspx?Id=2317 
Step 03: The applicant needs to register themselves at the online portal with their active email ID to apply to the VAIBHAV Fellowship.
Step 04: An autogenerated email will be sent to the applicant with an ID and link to create a password.
Step 05: After successful registration, the applicant can submit the completed application form and all relevant information through the ePMS portal of the DST.
Note 01: Each application should be submitted to DST.
Note 02: The host Scientist needs to apply on behalf of the Indian Diaspora as DST would release the funds to the host Institution which will be reimbursed to the fellow by the host Institution.
Note 03: Applications will be received in online mode only. Physical or email applications will not be considered.
Note 04: Any shortcomings in the proposal or nonsubmission through the ePMS portal will result in the rejection of the proposal. DST will not be responsible for these shortcomings.
Note 05: In case the applicant cannot submit the proposal in time, DST would not entertain that project offline, and also no request to extend the date would be entertained.
Note 06: It may be noted that after submission, the applicant will get a Temporary Project Number (TPN), autogenerated by the system, which should be mentioned in all future references.
Note 07: Without a consent letter from the Head of the Institute of Host and the applicant, the application shall not be entertained and shall be treated as disqualified.
Note 08: The applicant needs to visit the official website of DST for the latest update.
&gt; Merit Evaluation Criteria and Deliverables:

We support research excellence and therefore contributions to research, training, and mentoring are considered and valued as part of the merit review process, with a focus on the quality and impact of these contributions. Applications must address all of the following criteria in order to be considered for funding:

  Quality of the proposal and research findings, including significance and originality;
  Relevance and outcomes, including benefit to society;
  Knowledge transfer, exchange, and dissemination;
  Partnership and international collaborations;
  Applicants should submit a consent letter from their parent Institute.
  Expected results, outcomes, and appropriateness of budget strategy to achieve them.

&gt; Review Process for Evaluation of Applications:


  All applications will be handled in the strictest of confidence.
  A Review Committee comprised of representatives and independent external reviewers from India and government departments will examine the proposals.
  DST may consider inviting the shortlisted applicants for an online presentation of their proposed work as part of the review process. Applications must attain a positive rating to be considered eligible for funding.
  The Experts Review Committee will prioritize applicants in the given vertical. The final decision would be taken by the Government on the recommendation of the VAIBHAV Apex Committee.

&gt; Contact Details:

For more details, the following may be contacted:
Mr. Vinod Kumar Sharma, Under Secretary
VAIBHAV Cell, International Cooperation Division
Technology Bhawan, Department of Science and Technology
Ministry of Science and Technology, New Delhi110016
Email: vaibhavindia@gov.in For more information, please refer to: Guidelines: https://dst.gov.in/sites/default/files/Guidelines%20for%20VAIBHAV%20felowship_0.pdf DST Official Website: https://dst.gov.in/ Application Format: https://dst.gov.in/sites/default/files/Application%20format%20for%20VAIBHAV%20felowship.pdf Online DST Website: https://onlinedst.gov.in/Projectproposalformat.aspx?Id=2317 E-PMS: https://onlinedst.gov.in/Login.aspx Tags associated with the scheme include: Fellow, Fellowship, Research, Science, VAIBHAV.