The name of this welfare scheme is Financial Assistance to Purchase Outboard Motor of 2HP to 5 HP for Fitting to the Fishing Canoe. It is also known as FATPOMO2T5FFTTFC. “Financial Assistance to Purchase Outboard Motor of 2HP to 5 HP for Fitting to the Fishing Canoe” is a scheme by the Department of Fisheries, Government of Goa. This Scheme has been introduced to grant financial assistance in the form of a subsidy on the purchase of an outboard motor of 2HP to 5 HP for the operation of the fishing canoe below 26 feet. The applications are accepted only in offline mode. The scheme targets beneficiaries such as Individual. It is specifically implemented in Goa. Additionally, the nodal department is Fisheries Department.

The scheme provides the following benefits: > For General Category

50% subsidy, limited to ₹30,000 on a unit cost of ₹60,000 (excluding GST).
> For SC/ST/Woman Category

60% subsidy, limited to ₹36,000 on a unit cost of ₹60,000 (excluding GST).
NOTE 1: The financial assistance is provided for only 01 Outboard Motor for fitting to the fishing canoe of below 26 feet.
NOTE 2: The beneficiary can avail of the scheme every 5 years.

Eligibility criteria include: The applicant should be a traditional fisherman by birth or profession.
The applicant should be a resident of Goa.
The applicant&#39;s Fishing Canoe should be registered with the Department of Captain of Ports, Government of Goa. The application process is as follows: Step 1: The interested applicant should request the prescribed format of the application form from the department by paying ₹50/.
Step 2: In the application form, fill in all the mandatory fields, paste the passportsized photograph (signed across, if required), and attach copies of all the mandatory documents (selfattest, if required).
Step 3: Submit the duly filled and signed application form along with the documents to the concerned authority at the Department of Fisheries, Dayanand Bandodkar Marg, Patto Colony, Panaji Goa 403 521, or to the official posted at BDO Office/ SubOffices of the Department of Fisheries.


> Grievance Redressal

Any dissatisfaction or complaint about any service or its standards can be registered with the Department&#39;s Grievance Redressal Officer. The grievance can also be lodged on the link dirfish.goa@nic.in. All complaints will be acknowledged by us and final action taken will be communicated within 30 days. For more information, please refer to: Guidelines: https://fisheries.goa.gov.in/wp-content/uploads/2023/07/CitizenCharter-2.pdf Contact Us: https://fisheries.goa.gov.in/contact-us-2/# Tags associated with the scheme include: Financial Assistance, Fish, Fishermen, Subsidy.