The name of this welfare scheme is Financial Assistance To Visually Impaired Advocates. It is also known as FAVIA. The scheme “Financial Assistance to visually impaired Advocates” was launched by the Department of Social Justice, Government of Kerala. Under the scheme, financial assistance will be provided to visually impaired Advocates who are practicing in any one or more Courts in Kerala. The applicant under this scheme shall be eligible for an exgratia non-recurring grant for the purchase of books, provisional suits, etc., and they are being paid a reader&amp;#39;s allowance for a period of 10 years. The scheme targets beneficiaries such as Individual. It is specifically implemented in Kerala. The implementing agency is District Social Justice Office, Kerala. Additionally, the nodal department is Social Justice Department.

The scheme provides the following benefits: Under the scheme, the Visually Impaired Advocates shall be eligible for an exgratia nonrecurring grant of ₹3500/for the purchase of books, provisional suits, etc.
The Visually Impaired Advocates are also being paid a reader&#39;s allowance @ ₹5000/per month for a period of 10 years.

Eligibility criteria include: The applicant should be a native and resident of Kerala State.
The applicant should be a visually impaired Advocate.
The applicant should be an advocate practicing in any one or more Courts in Kerala.
The combined annual income of the applicant and his/her family from all sources shall not exceed ₹1,00,000/.
Note: A person who becomes a reading assistant to advocates should at least pass the S.S.L.C. examination. The application process is as follows: Registration Process:
Step 01: To avail of the benefits of the scheme, the applicant needs to visit SUNEETHIOnline Service Application Portal
Step 02: On the home page, click on “One time Registration”
Step 03: Fill in the details like Name, Email ID &amp;amp; Mobile Number and click on ‘Register’.
Step 04: The applicant needs to enter the verification code received on the mobile number and click on ‘Verify’.
Step 05: Now, a form will open to create the new profile, fill in all the mandatory details and click on ‘Register’.
Login/Application Process: 
Step 01: Once the registration process is completed, the applicant should visit SUNEETHIOnline Service Application Portal and click on “Citizen Login”.
Step 02: Enter the user name i.e. Mobile Number and Password and click on “Sign in”.
Step 03: Now, the applicant needs to update all their details i.e. Personal Information, Contact Details, Identity Cards &amp;amp; Bank Details by clicking on the &amp;#39;Edit&amp;#39; button.
Step 04: Once the applicant updated their profile successfully, the schemes will appear on the left side of the screen.
Step 05: Select the scheme and click on the “Apply Now” button.
Step 06: Fill in all the mandatory details in the application form and click on the ‘Submit’ button. Step 01: To avail of the benefits of the scheme, the applicants need to visit the official website of the Social Justice Department, Government of Kerala, and download the application form.
Step 02: The applicants need to fill out the application form completely.
Step 03: The duly filled application forms along with the documents prescribed have to be submitted to the concerned office of the Director of Social Justice in their respective district. For more information, please refer to: Official Website: http://sjd.kerala.gov.in/scheme-info.php?scheme_id=NzVzVjh1cVIjdnk=# Tags associated with the scheme include: Advocate, Blind, Court, Financial Assistance, Visually Impaired.