The name of this welfare scheme is Plastic Tunnel (Lo-Tunnel). It is also known as PTLT. The Agriculture Department of the Rajasthan government implemented the Plastic Tunnel (Lo-Tunnel) scheme, providing subsidies to farmers. A low plastic tunnel is a protected structure created by covering each crop bed with plastic sheeting at a low height after planting. It is made to protect crops from damage caused by low temperatures. This technique is very useful for off-season cultivation of vegetables in the plains of North India where the night temperature remains below 8 degrees Celsius for about 40 to 60 days during the winter season. This technique allows off-season vegetable cultivation. Vegetable seedlings are prepared using the plastic tray technique specifically in December and January.


> Important points


1. The low tunnel can be constructed only after administrative approval is issued by the Horticulture Department.
1. Verification can be done by the constituted committee.
1. The payment of the grant amount will be transferred directly to the farmer&#39;s bank account. The scheme targets beneficiaries such as Individual. It is specifically implemented in Rajasthan. Additionally, the nodal department is Agriculture Department.

The scheme provides the following benefits: 50 percent subsidy is available for a maximum of 1000 square meters.
Small/marginal category farmers are given a 75 percent subsidy for a maximum of 4000 square meters.

Eligibility criteria include: The applicant should be a native of Rajasthan.
The applicant should be a farmer.
The applicant must have agricultural land ownership and irrigation sources. The application process is as follows: > Registration

Step1: Applicant have to visit the official portal. 
Step2: Click on the option “Register”.
Step3: Then you will be redirected to the SSO registration page. The registration page will appear with the following options.


  Citizen


Step4: Choose the either one option from  the Jan Aadhaar Or Google to process further.


  Jan Aadhaar : Enter the Jan Aadhaar number, click on the ‘Next’ button,


      Select your name, the name of the head of the family and all the other members and 
      Click on the ‘Send OTP’ button. Enter the ‘OTP’ and 
      Click on the ‘Verify OTP’ button to Complete the registration. 






  Google : Enter the Gmail ID, click on the ‘Next’ button, 


      Enter the password.
      A new link appear on screen, now click on new SSO link.
      SSO id will appear on screen, now create the password.
      Enter Mobile number, click on registration.




Step5: Complete the registration process.


> Apply

Step1: Applicant have to visit the official portal. 
Step2: After login, dashboard will open.
Step3: Click on “ RAJKISAN ” option. 
Step4: In &quot;Farmer&quot;, click on &quot;Application Entry Request&quot;.
Step5: Enter the &quot;Bhamashah ID&quot; or &quot;Janaadhaar ID&quot; and search.  
Step6: Select the person name and scheme name. 
Step7: Complete the Aadhaar Authentication and click on Get details. 
Step8: Provide the required details.
            Pensioner Details.
            Bank Details.
            Disability Details.
            Verification Details.
            Upload Documents.
Step9: Submit. For more information, please refer to: Guidelines: https://rajkisan.rajasthan.gov.in/Rajkisanweb/Kisan Farming Structure: https://kvk.icar.gov.in/API/Content/PPupload/k0422_73.pdf Registration: https://sso.rajasthan.gov.in/register Login: https://sso.rajasthan.gov.in/signin Tags associated with the scheme include: Agriculture, Farmer, Plastic Tunnel.