The name of this welfare scheme is Early Intervention Centre for Children with Cerebral Palsy in SRTC, Chennai and Tiruchirapalli Districts. It is also known as EICCCPSRTCCTD. The &quot;Early Intervention Centre for Children with Cerebral Palsy in SRTC, Chennai and Tiruchirapalli Districts&quot; was launched by the Department for the Welfare of Differently Abled Persons, Tamil Nadu. Under this scheme, stimulation training is given to the children affected with cerebral palsy in the age group of below 6 years. The applications are accepted offline in the prescribed form available at the District Differently Abled Welfare Office. The scheme targets beneficiaries such as Individual. It is specifically implemented in Tamil Nadu. Additionally, the nodal department is Welfare of Differently Abled Persons Department.

The scheme provides the following benefits: Early intervention provides stimulation training to the children.

Eligibility criteria include: The young child/infants should be affected with cerebral palsy. 
The age of a young child/infant should be 6 years or below. The application process is as follows: Step 1: The parents/guardian should visit (during office hours) the District Differently Abled Welfare Officer and request a hard copy of the prescribed format of the application form from the staff exclusively entrusted to issue and collect filledin applications.
Step 2: In the application form, fill in all the mandatory fields, and attach copies of all the mandatory documents (selfattest, if required).
Step 3: Submit the duly filled and signed application form along with the documents to the District Differently Abled Welfare Officer.
Step 4: Request a receipt or acknowledgment from the District Differently Abled Welfare Officer to whom the application has been submitted. Ensure that the receipt contains essential details such as the date and time of submission, and a unique identification number (if applicable). For more information, please refer to: Citizen's Charter (2022): https://cms.tn.gov.in/sites/default/files/documents/wda_e_cc_2022_23.pdf Tags associated with the scheme include: Cerebral Palsy, Children, Differently Abled Person, Infants.