The name of this welfare scheme is "In-Plant Training" Component of the "Development of Industries" Scheme. It is also known as IPT. The &quot;In-Plant Training&quot; component of the &quot;Development of Industries&quot; scheme by the District Industries Centre, Department of Industries and Commerce, UT of Puducherry was introduced to create employment opportunities and motivate entrepreneurship among the educated unemployed youth. Through this scheme, training is imparted to the educated unemployed youth at various industrial establishments in a real-time environment. The trainees acquire the skill by observing, assisting and learning the job on their own in the plant itself. The training makes them acquire better skills in the trade to start either their self-ventures or to get employment in established industries. The training is imparted for one year with a monthly stipend at rates based on educational qualification. The scheme targets beneficiaries such as Individual. It is specifically implemented in Puducherry. Additionally, the nodal department is Industries and Commerce Department, Puducherry.

The scheme provides the following benefits: > Stipend


Higher Secondary / ITI and below: ₹ 1,500/.
Any Graduate or 3 years Diploma in Engg. Or equivalent: ₹ 2,500/.
Degree in Engineering or Post Graduate in Arts &amp; Science or equivalent: ₹ 3,000/.

 Trainees having postgraduate qualification in a trade which requires under graduation as minimum qualification will be paid ₹ 3,000/per month.
 During the period of training, the trainees may waste some of the raw materials for which an amount of ₹ 300/per trainee per month is paid to the industrial units which impart training as compensation for wastage.
 Stipend payable will be based on the minimum educational qualification fixed for the trade concerned i.e. stipend will be the same for any notified trade irrespective of the trainee possessing higher qualification. 


Indicative List of Trades under InPlant Training: Computer Application, Electrician, Electronics, Composing &amp; Printing, Machinist, Auto Mechanic, A/C Refrigeration, Lab Technician.
Commencement of Training: In July.
Period of Training: One year.

Eligibility criteria include: The applicant should be between 18 and 35 years of age.
The applicant should be unemployed.
The applicant should have passed Class 10th (SSLC).
The applicant should be a native of the Union Territory of Puducherry (or) a continuous resident of the area for the past three years. The application process is as follows: Step 1: The interested applicant should take print of the prescribed format of the application form.
Step 2: In the application form, fill in all the mandatory fields, paste the passportsized photograph (signed across, if required), and attach copies of all the mandatory documents (selfattest, if required).
Step 3: The interested applicant should visit (on a working day, and during office hours) the General Manager of the District Industries Centre (Thattanchavady, Puducherry 605 009, 2248391, 2249392, 2248987, dicpdy@bsnl.in), and submit the duly filled and signed application form and the documents to the concerned authority.
Step 4: On receipt of the application, necessary entries will be made in the application receipt register and a unique number is assigned to the applicant for identifying each applicant which shall be used for all further references and also as acknowledgement for the receipt of the application.
Time of Submission of Application: Month of January (Advertisement will be floated in local dailies during December). For more information, please refer to: Guidelines: https://dic.py.gov.in/training Application Form: https://dic.py.gov.in/sites/default/files/inplant.pdf Contact Us: https://dic.py.gov.in/contact-us Tags associated with the scheme include: Skill, Stipend, Training, Unemployed, Youth.