The name of this welfare scheme is Incentive Scheme for MSMEs in Powerloom Sector: Interest Subsidy on Term Loan. It is also known as ISMPSISTL. The scheme “Interest Subsidy on Term Loan” is a sub scheme under the “Incentive Scheme for MSMEs in Powerloom Sector”. It was launched on 1st January, 2022, by the Department of Micro, Small &amp;amp; Medium Enterprises and Textiles, Government of West Bengal, and shall remain valid upto 31st December, 2024.
&gt; Objective of the &amp;quot;Incentive Scheme for MSMEs in Powerloom Sector”:

The objective of the Scheme is to extend fiscal incentives for installation of New age shuttleless Powerlooms by MSMEs in Textile sector with a view to boost production of the improved quality fabrics and to create a sustainable ecosystem for MSMEs in Textile sector which can maximize the utilization of resource, generate new employment and widen the area of operation to make the State emerge as the leader in Powerloom sector in country.
&gt; Objective of the &amp;quot;Interest Subsidy on Term Loan&amp;quot; Sub-scheme:

Through this incentive, an eligible micro, small or medium enterprise in Powerloom sector will be entitled to Interest Subsidy on annual interest liability on the Term Loan borrowed from a Commercial Bank/ Cooperative Bank/ Scheduled Banks approved by RBI/ RRBs/ Financial Institution (Central and State) for implementation of the approved project. The scheme targets beneficiaries such as Business Entity, Government Organisation, Joint Liability Groups (JLGS), NGO, Registered Societies, Self Help Groups (SHGS), Trust. It is specifically implemented in West Bengal. Additionally, the nodal department is Micro, Small & Medium Enterprises and Textiles Department.

The scheme provides the following benefits: &gt; Micro &amp;amp; Small Enterprise:


  Zone A &amp;amp; B: 55% of interest liability for 5 years.  Zone C, D &amp;amp; E: 70% of interest liability for 5 years
&gt; Medium Enterprise:


  Zone B, C, D &amp;amp; E: 25% of total Term Loan interest paid by the enterprise for 5 years subject to a ceiling of ₹ 1,75,00,000/per year.
&gt; Note: The interest subsidy will be payable annually subject to submission of a statement / certificate (in AnnexureII) by the lending Bank /Financial Institution to substantiate that the unit has paid the due interest to the institution on the due dates and has not defaulted in payment of interest at any time during the period.

Eligibility criteria include: The Scheme shall be generally applicable to all micro, small, and medium enterprises (MSMEs) in the powerloom sector.
  Enterprises must have started production from 2022 to Enterprises should have executed a Fourparty agreement with the Directorate of Textiles, Financial institution and Tantuja.
  The units should be a private sector, cooperative sector and joint sector undertaking as also companies/undertakings owned and managed by the State Government and the Industrial SHGs.
  The project should be covered by a detailed feasibility report/project prepared for the purpose.
  The project should have been approved and sanctioned by a Central Financial Institution or Commercial Banks or State Financial Institutions. The application process is as follows: After commencement of production an eligible micro, small or medium enterprise in Powerloom segment claiming the subsidy, will submit an application as per prescribed format in FormA2 with all the relevant documents to the Directorate of Textiles.
&gt; Time frame for submission of first Application:

Within 12 months from the date of commencement of commercial production (2022 to 2024).
&gt; Address:

Directorate of Textiles, Handlooms, Spinning Mills, Silk Weaving &amp;amp; Handloom Based Handicrafts Division
New Secretariat Buildings,
1, K. S. Roy Road, 5th Floor, &amp;#39;B&amp;#39; Block,
Kolkata Tel No. 0332248 4537 / 2248 6271 (Ext. 215)
Fax No. 0332248 4537 For more information, please refer to: Guidelines (Kolkata Gazette): https://wbmsmet.gov.in/home/download/YzA0YzdiMjc0YjAwYjBiMDgwYTRjYmRkOTU1MDY1NGQyNTNjM2YyYWYxMDRhNTkyYjRiMWI1YmVkZDYyOTZlN2YwNDc3ZDgwMDM5YzgxYjhmZWZiMWY2ODI0ZTNjYTUzMjU4N2YwYjViMjJiZTllZjAzYmM3NTRiZTY4ZDk0MTVjVmtvdlJCcjA0ZlpLYjZkbTlPQ0hyUTBaNGRuVzZZOXpHTlpGRkJwcUlZaDNwNXF0S01rSU4rTE5ZS3JCd3VKVmp5c1drM3hEb29QaHlXNit1Vy9CQT09 Tags associated with the scheme include: Entrepreneurship, Incentives, Interest Subsidy, Powerloom, Reimbursement, Subsidy, Term Loan.