The name of this welfare scheme is Home for Visually Challenged Person. It is also known as HVCP. The scheme “Home for Visually challenged Person&quot; was launched by the Department of Social Welfare, Government of Puducherry. The objective of this scheme is to take care of the male persons who are visually impaired and who lack care and protection in society and are deprived of basic needs like food, shelter, clothes. The scheme targets beneficiaries such as Individual. It is specifically implemented in Puducherry. Additionally, the nodal department is Social Welfare Department, Puducherry.

The scheme provides the following benefits: Free Food and Shelter.
Free Supply of Daily Living Needs.
Pocket Money of ₹ 5/.
Vocational Training Such as Korai &amp; Coir Mat Weaving, According to Their Interest. 
Labour Charges of ₹ 20 /for Mat.
Recreations Such as TV, Radio, Musical Instrument, Besides Local Trips to Places of Interest and Temples. 
Annual Tour to Places of Interest. 

NOTE: Contact the authorities below in case of delay in disbursal of benefits:
Puducherry: The Director, Directorate of Social Welfare, Saradhambal Nagar, Ellaipillaichavadhy, Puducherry. 
Karaikal: The Collector, Karaikal.
Mahe/Yanam: The Regional Administrator, Mahe/Yanam.

Eligibility criteria include: The applicant should have a total absence of sight.
The applicant should have a visual acuity not exceeding 6/60 or 20/200 in the better eye with correcting lenses. 
The applicant should have a limitation of field of vision sub standing an angle of 20 degree.
The applicant should be above 20 years of age. The application process is as follows: Step 1: The interested applicant should visit (during office hours) the Office/ SubOffice of the Department of Social Welfare, and request the hard copy of the prescribed format of the application form from the staff exclusively entrusted to issue and collect filledin applications.
Step 2: In the application form, fill in all the mandatory fields, paste the passportsized photograph (signed across, if required), and attach copies of all the mandatory documents (selfattest, if required).
Step 3: Submit the duly filled and signed application form along with the documents to the authority given below Puducherry: The Deputy Director, Differently Abled Section, Directorate of Social Welfare. Karaikal: The Assistant Director, Social Welfare Department (Sub Office).Mahe / Yanam: The Welfare Officer (i\c), Social Welfare Department (Sub Office). 
Step 4: Request a receipt or acknowledgement from the concerned authority to whom the application has been submitted. Ensure that the receipt contains essential details such as the date and time of submission, and a unique identification number (if applicable). For more information, please refer to: Guidelines: https://socwelfare.py.gov.in/home-visually-challenged-person-puducherry Citizen's Charter: https://socwelfare.py.gov.in/sites/default/files/citizen-charter.pdf Contact Us: https://socwelfare.py.gov.in/contact-us Sub Offices: https://socwelfare.py.gov.in/sub--office-social-welfare-department Grievance Redressal: https://pgportal.gov.in/ Tags associated with the scheme include: Free Clothes, Free Food, Shelter, Visually Challenged Person.