The name of this welfare scheme is Dr. Panjabrao Deshmukh Hostel Maintenance Allowance. It is also known as DRPDHMA. The Panjabrao Deshmukh Scheme is a welfare scheme launched by the Government of Maharashtra to provide financial assistance to students from economically weaker sections of the society who are pursuing higher education. The scheme provides financial assistance to students for their tuition fees, examination fees, and other related expenses.


The objective of this scheme is to encourage and support students from economically weaker sections of the society to pursue higher education and to help them achieve their career aspirations. The scheme aims to bridge the gap between the economically privileged and underprivileged students and to ensure that every deserving student has equal access to higher education.


Under this scheme, eligible students can apply for financial assistance through the online portal of the scheme. The applicants are required to provide their personal details, academic records, income certificate, and other relevant documents as per the guidelines of the scheme. The applications are then verified and scrutinized by the authorities, and the financial assistance is provided to the eligible students directly to their bank accounts.


Overall, the Panjabrao Deshmukh Scheme is an important initiative by the Government of Maharashtra towards the goal of inclusive and equitable education. It provides a much-needed financial support system for students from economically weaker sections of the society, thereby helping them to achieve their educational goals and aspirations. The scheme targets beneficiaries such as Individual. It is specifically implemented in Maharashtra. Additionally, the nodal department is Medical Education and Drugs Department.

It falls under the categories: Education & Learning.

Eligibility criteria include: Eligibility Criteria: (As per the GR Dated 07th Oct 2017, 22nd Feb 2018 , 01st March 2018, 18th June 2018 ) 
a) Applicant should have Nationality of India. 
b) Candidate should be Domicile of Maharashtra State.
c) Applicant should be ”Bonafide Student of Institute” and admitted for Professional and Technical course (Diploma / Graduation / Post Graduation Degree) as mentioned in GR 
d) Deemed University and Private university is not applicable 
e) Candidate should be admitted through Centralized Admission Process (CAP). 
f) Applicant should not avail any other scholarship/stipend. 
g) For current Academic Year, Only 2 child from family are allowed for benefit of scheme. 
h) The Total Annual Income of Family / Guardian should not be more than 8 Lakhs. 
i) Minimum 50 % attendance in previous semester (Exception for fresh admitted in College). j) During course duration, candidate should not have a gap of 2 or more than 2 years. For more information, please refer to: Guidelines: https://mahadbt.maharashtra.gov.in/PDF/34.pdf Tags associated with the scheme include: Dr. Panjabrao Deshmukh, Education, Hostel Allowance, Maharashtra Scheme, Student Scheme.