The name of this welfare scheme is Education Loan for Persons with Disabilities- Haryana. It is also known as ELPD. The scheme &amp;quot;Education Loan for Persons with Disabilities&amp;quot; is implemented by the Haryana Backward Classes and Economically Weaker Sections Kalyan Nigam. Under this scheme, education loans of up to ₹50 lakhs are provided to persons with disabilities (Orthopedically Handicapped, Visually Handicapped, Hearing Handicapped, Mentally Retarded) for pursuing professional and technical education both in India and abroad. Permanent residents of Haryana, aged between 18 and 55 years, with a disability of more than 40%, are eligible to benefit from this scheme. The scheme targets beneficiaries such as Individual. It is specifically implemented in Haryana. The implementing agency is Haryana Backward Classes And Economically Weaker Sections Kalyan Nigam. Additionally, the nodal department is Welfare of Scheduled Caste & Backward Classes Department.

The scheme provides the following benefits: Under this scheme, education loans of up to ₹50 lakhs are provided to persons with disabilities (OH/VH/HH/MR) for pursuing professional and technical education both in India and abroad.

Eligibility criteria include: The applicant should be a permanent resident of Haryana State.
   The applicant should have a disability of more than 40%.
   The applicant&amp;#39;s age should be between 18 and 55 years. For persons with mental retardation, the eligible age is above 14 years. An age certificate issued by a competent authority authorized by the State Government, or as mentioned in the 10th certificate or any other governmentissued certificate, will be required document.
   The applicant should have secured admission to a professional or technical course in India or abroad.
   Unique Disability ID (UDID) registration under the Department of Empowerment of Persons with Disabilities (DEPwD), Ministry of Social Justice and Empowerment, Government of India, is mandatory for loan amounts of ₹15 lakhs and above.
   The applicant must have a Parivar Pehchan Patra (PPP ID). The application process is as follows: Registration Process on AntyodayaSARAL Portal:
Step 01: The eligible applicant may apply online through the Official PortalAntyodayaSARAL Portal: https://saralharyana.gov.in/
Step 02: If the applicant is not registered on the portal, he/she gets registered there. 
Step 03: For registration, click “New User” under ‘Sign In Here’ and fill in all the mandatory details i.e. Name, Email ID, Mobile Number, Password &amp;amp; State. Click on ‘Submit’.
Step 04: Verify your mobile number and email ID through the received OTP and complete the registration process.
&gt; Login to apply for the scheme:

Step 01: To avail the benefits of the scheme, visit the Official AntyodayaSARAL Portal and log in through the email ID used while registering.
Step 02: Enter Password &amp;amp; Captcha and click on ‘Login’.
Step 03: After successful login, click on ‘Apply for Services’ and then ‘View all Available Services’
Step 04: Now, you can search for the scheme and click on the scheme to go ahead and fill out the application form.
Step 05: Enter your Parivar Pehchan Patra number Family ID and click on “Click here to Fetch Family Data” which displays the family members registered under the given Family ID.
Step 06: Select the beneficiary/applicant name and enter the OTP that is being sent to the selected family member for verification. Click on “Click to Verify”
Step 07: Fill in all the mandatory details and upload all the mandatory documents.
Step 08: Preview the application form and click on ‘Submit’.
&gt; Tracking of Application:

Applicant can track his/her application through the Official AntyodayaSARAL Portal by entering their Department Name, Scheme Name, and Application Reference ID. For more information, please refer to: Scheme Details: https://kms.saralharyana.nic.in/ViewDoc?Id=dqtBI+sui3UGdiZgKVKJ9Q%3d%3d Official Website: https://www.haryanascbc.gov.in/contribution-towards-share-capital-to-haryana-backward-classes-and-economically-weaker-sections Antyodaya-SARAL Portal: https://saralharyana.gov.in/ Tags associated with the scheme include: Disability, Education Loan, PwD.