The name of this welfare scheme is Grant of 50% Subsidy for the Purchase of Aquarium and Its Accessories under "Development of Freshwater Aquaculture and Setting up of Aquarium, Ornamental Fish Breeding Centre". It is also known as GSPAA-DFWASAOFBC. The scheme &quot;Grant of 50% Subsidy for the Purchase of Aquarium and Its Accessories&quot; is a Sub-Component under the scheme &quot;Development of Freshwater Aquaculture and Setting up of Aquarium, Ornamental Fish Breeding Centre”. The scheme is extended to all the regions of the Union territory of Puducherry. The scheme is introduced with the objective to propagate the importance of aquarium keeping and to inculcate the art of aquarium keeping among the general public. The scheme targets beneficiaries such as Individual. It is specifically implemented in Puducherry. Additionally, the nodal department is Fisheries and Fishermen Welfare Department, Puducherry.

The scheme provides the following benefits: The department has assessed the unit cost for the aquarium and its accessories at ₹ 7,000 per unit. 
The aquarium proposed to be issued to the beneficiaries consists of one aquarium/moulded aquarium, one stand, one power filter, one air pump, two numbers of 1’ tube lights, 10 kgs. of gravel, 9 numbers of gold fishes, 1 number of 100 grams fish food pocket and one number of scoop net.



> Pattern of Assistance (in ₹)


Unit cost: 7,000 (Maximum) 
50% subsidy by Government: 3,500 (Maximum) 
50% and above the cost of an aquarium to be paid by the beneficiary to the Secretary/Administrator of PSFCF/ KFCMU/ Fishermen Cooperative Societies in Mahe and Yanam: 3,500 (Maximum) 

 May vary from time to time.

Eligibility criteria include: The applicant should be a resident of the Union territory of Puducherry by domicile or by birth.
The applicant should have attained 18 years of age.
The applicant or their family member should not have benefited under the scheme previously. 
The applicant should possess a pucca house/commercial place to keep an aquarium. The application process is as follows: Step 1: The interested applicant should visit the office of the concerned authority i.e. Pondicherry State Fishermen Cooperative Federation Limited, Puducherry/The Karaikal Fishermen Cooperative Marketing Union, Karaikal/The Assistant Director of Fisheries and Fishermen Welfare, Mahe/The Assistant Director of Fisheries and Fishermen Welfare, Yanam of the respective regions. 
Step 1: The interested applicant should request the hard copy of the prescribed format of the application form from the concerned authority.
Step 2: In the application form, fill in all the mandatory fields, paste the passportsized photograph (signed across, if required), and attach copies of all the mandatory documents (selfattest, if required).
Step 3: Submit the duly filled and signed application form along with the documents to the concerned authority.
Step 4: Request a receipt or acknowledgment from the concerned authority to whom the application has been submitted. Ensure that the receipt contains essential details such as the date and time of submission, and a unique identification number (if applicable). For more information, please refer to: Guidelines & Application Form: https://fisheries.py.gov.in/sites/default/files/aquarium20subsidy20notification.pdf State Plan Schemes: https://fisheries.py.gov.in/sites/default/files/fisheries-state-plan-schemes.pdf List Of Sub-Offices: https://fisheries.py.gov.in/sub-offices Contact Us: https://fisheries.py.gov.in/contact-us Tags associated with the scheme include: Aquaculture, Aquarium, Financial Assistance, Fish, Fisheries, Subsidy.