The name of this welfare scheme is Msme Skill Training And Employment Scheme. It is also known as Msme-stes. The scheme “MSME Skill Training and Employment Scheme” was launched by the Department of Micro, Small and Medium Enterprises, Government of Tamil Nadu during the years 2021-22. The scheme is implemented by the Commissionerate of Industries and Commerce at the State level, the Regional Joint Director of Industries and Commerce for Chennai district, and General Managers of the District Industries Centre for other districts in Tamil Nadu.
Objective:
The objective of the scheme is to fulfill the skilled manpower requirement of MSMEs by imparting necessary on-the-job training by the MSMEs themselves and thereby creating employment. The scheme will assist the MSME sector by sharing the training cost which otherwise would be borne by the enterprises themselves.
Training provider:
MSMEs will have to give employment based job oriented on the job training which will lead to certification. It will be the responsibility of the MSMEs to ensure that for the proposed training, the relevant capacities are available to them. The scheme targets beneficiaries such as Industries, Individual. It is specifically implemented in Tamil Nadu. The implementing agency is Commissionerate Of Industries And Commerce , Government Of Tamil Nadu. Additionally, the nodal department is Micro Small and Medium Enterprises Department.

The scheme provides the following benefits: Under the scheme, the subsidy will be provided to the MSMEs for training; subject to a maximum of ₹2000/per month per candidate for a maximum of 6 months.
   Certificates will be provided by the National Skill Development Corporation (NSDC), after the assessment of acquired skills by the trained candidates.

Eligibility criteria include: The applicant should be an MSME unit in the state who has the requisite infrastructure.
Only in respect of vocation/trade in which MSMEs have expertise will be encouraged, MSME units should have experience, expertise, and running business.
The trainees selected by the applicant (MSME) shall be between 18 to 25 years of age.
The trainees selected by the applicant shall have an engineering degree, a polytechnic diploma, or an Industrial Training Institute (ITI) certificate, or qualification as prescribed by the respective sector skill council.
The applicant shall provide the trainee with a stipend of ₹5000/per month, for a maximum of 6 months.
The applicant, MSME Unit, should not have been blacklisted at any point in time by any Government Norms/Rules/Acts. 

Note: The scheme is funded by Tamil Nadu Skill Development Corporation (TNSDC) The application process is as follows: Step 01: The applicant (MSME) may apply online through the Official Website of the Micro, Small and Medium Enterprises Department, Government of Tamil Nadu. 
Step 02: On the home page, click on “Apply Online” and then click on “Apply New MSME”. 
Step 03: If not registered, click on ‘Register’ and fill in all mandatory details.
Step 04: After successful registration, click on ‘login’ to apply for the scheme.
Step 05: Fill in all the mandatory details in the application form and upload all the necessary documents.
Step 06: Submit the application form. The MSME unit fulfilling all the necessary eligibility criteria may contact the following offices to avail of the benefits of the scheme:
The office of the Commissionerate of Industries and Commerce at the State level,
The office of the Regional Joint Director of Industries and Commerce for Chennai district,
The office of the General Managers of District Industries Centre for other districts in Tamil Nadu. For more information, please refer to: Official Website: https://www.msmetamilnadu.tn.gov.in/skill-development.php Guideline: https://www.msmeonline.tn.gov.in/ammaskill/pdf/MSME_skill_training_scheme.pdf Flow Chart Of The Scheme: https://www.msmeonline.tn.gov.in/ammaskill/pdf/MSME_skill_flow.pdf Tags associated with the scheme include: Employment, MSME, Skill, Stipend, Trainee, Training.