The name of this welfare scheme is Sikkim Grant Of Award To Transgender. It is also known as SGATT. The scheme “Sikkim Grant of Award To Transgender (SGATT)” was launched in 2013 by the Department of Women &amp;amp; Child Welfare, Govt. of Sikkim. Under this scheme, the state government provides financial assistance to transgender belonging to a household of the Below Poverty Line category. The scheme helps the transgender who has no regular source of income, no financial support from family members, and is non-recipient of any other pension from the State Government/Central Government or any other sources. The scheme targets beneficiaries such as Individual. It is specifically implemented in Sikkim. The implementing agency is Women & Child Welfare Department, Govt. Of Sikkim. Additionally, the nodal department is Women & Child Welfare Department.

It falls under the categories: Social welfare & Empowerment, Banking,Financial Services and Insurance.

Eligibility criteria include: The applicant should be a resident of the state of Sikkim.
   The applicant should be transgender.
   The applicant should be from Below Poverty Line (BPL) family.
   The applicant should not be a recipient of salary/pension/family pension from the Central Government / other State Governments.
   The applicant should have opened the Bank Account under “Pradhan Mantri Jan Dhan Yojana”.

&lt;br&gt;

Note 01: The payment of a grant to the transgender shall cease from the date of the death of the beneficiary. The amount due up to the corresponding month of death shall be paid to the immediate members of the beneficiary and the passbook shall be surrendered to the Department.
&lt;br&gt;

Note 02: In case of permanent migration of the beneficiary outside Sikkim, the payment of the grant shall cease to be made from the date of her/his migration. In such event, the family/ Panchayat of the beneficiary shall surrender the passbook to the Department. For more information, please refer to: Website: https://pensionscheme.sikkim.gov.in Guideline: http://sikkimsocialwelfare.gov.in/wp-content/uploads/2015/12/27.8.13-Sikkim-payment-of-grant-to-the-TRansgender-Rules-2013.pdf Tags associated with the scheme include: Below Poverty Line, Direct Benefit Transfer, Financial Assistance, Free Education, Transgender.