The name of this welfare scheme is Scheme of Encouragement to Young Artists. It is also known as SOETYA. The &quot;Scheme of Encouragement to Young Artists&quot; was launched by the Art and Culture Department, Government of Tamil Nadu. The scheme gives an opportunity to talented young artists to perform in cultural programmes organized by voluntary organizations, thereby identifying talented youth in the field of Vocal Music, Bharathanatyam, and Instrumental Music. Remuneration in the range of ₹5,000/- to ₹10,000/- is paid to the artists for their performance. The scheme targets beneficiaries such as Artists. It is specifically implemented in Tamil Nadu. The implementing agency is Tamil Nadu Eyal Isai Nataka Mandram Ponni. Additionally, the nodal department is Art and Culture Department.

The scheme provides the following benefits: Remuneration in the range of ₹5,000/to ₹10,000/.

Eligibility criteria include: The applicant should be an artist.
The applicant should be a domicile of Tamil Nadu.
In the case of music artist, the age should be above 16 years and within 30 years.
In the case of Bharatanatyam artist, the age should be over 15 years and within 30 years. 
The orchestra artists such as ghatam, ganjira, muharshingh, konnakkol are also eligible to apply. 
The artist should participate in any one of the following performances: Vocal, Bharatanatyam, Kathakalakshepam, Veena, Violin (solo) Nadaswaram, Flute, Jalatharangam, Gottuvadhyam, Clarinet, Guitar, Mandolin, Saxophone. The application process is as follows: > Releasing the advertisement published by the Manram in the newspapers.

Step 1: The interested applicant should visit (during office hours) the office of the Manram and request the hard copy of the prescribed format of the application form from the staff exclusively entrusted to issue and collect filledin applications.
Step 2: In the application form, fill in all the mandatory fields, and attach copies of all the mandatory documents (selfattest, if required).
Step 3: Submit the duly filled and signed application form along with the documents to the Member Secretary, Tamil Nadu Eyal Isai Nataka Manram, Ponni, 31, P.S. Kumarasamy Raja Salai, Chennai600 Step 4: Request a receipt or acknowledgment from the concerned authority to whom the application has been submitted. Ensure that the receipt contains essential details such as the date and time of submission, and a unique identification number (if applicable).
NOTE: The artiste selected already in one art discipline can apply for another also. For more information, please refer to: Guidelines: https://www.tn.gov.in/rti/proactive/inftour/handbook_artculture.pdf Revised Rate: https://artandculture.tn.gov.in/schemes-implemented-tamil-nadu-eyal-isai-nataka-mandram Tags associated with the scheme include: Artist, Culture, Financial Assistance, Remuneration, Young.