The name of this welfare scheme is Nirman Shramik Kalyan Yojana. It is also known as NSKY. The scheme “Nirman Shramik Kalyan Yojana” was launched by the Labour and Employee&amp;#39;s State Insurance Department, Government of Odisha. The objective of the scheme is to extend financial assistance to eligible building and other construction workers for continuing education of their wards/children under the “Nirman Shramik Kalyan Yojana” being extended by the Odisha Building and Other Construction Workers Welfare Board. The scheme targets beneficiaries such as Individual. It is specifically implemented in Odisha. The implementing agency is Labour And Employee's State Insurance Department, Odisha. Additionally, the nodal department is Labour and Employees State Insurance Department.

The scheme provides the following benefits: Type, Number &amp; Duration of Scholarship:
Sl. No.Educational Assistance (on completion of 1st year)Different benefits extended by Odisha Building and Other Construction Workers Welfare BoardDifferent benefits extended by Odisha Building and Other Construction Workers Welfare Board1For Class6th and 7th to girl child₹2,000/per annum2For Class8th to all children₹2,000/per annum20% additional benefit to girl child of beneficiary over and above normal assistance3For Class9th to all children ₹3,000/per annum20% additional benefit to girl child of beneficiary over and above normal assistance4For Class10th to all children ₹4,000/per annum20% additional benefit to girl child of beneficiary over and above normal assistance5Cash award to the children securing 90% or above in Class10th₹10,000/(One time)20% additional benefit to girl child of beneficiary over and above normal assistance6For Class – 11th/12th₹5,000/per annum20% additional benefit to girl child of beneficiary over and above normal assistance7For Classes of B.A./B.Sc./ B.Com./PG Studies ₹7,000/per annum20% additional benefit to girl child of beneficiary over and above normal assistance8For B. Tech/ MCA/ MBA/ B. Arch./ M. Arch./ M.Tech/ M. Sc./ B. Pharm/ M. Pharm/ Hotel Management &amp;amp;amp;amp; Catering Services/ Medical (includes Allopathic, Ayurvedic &amp;amp;amp;amp; Homeopathic) in Govt. Colleges only  ₹40,000/per annum20% additional benefit to girl child of beneficiary over and above normal assistance9For B.Ed / CT/ Nursing Training in Govt. Institutes₹10,000/per annum20% additional benefit to girl child of beneficiary over and above normal assistance

Eligibility criteria include: The wards/children of the building and other construction workers are eligible to apply under the scheme.
   The financial assistance is given to only the wards/children of such building and other construction (BoC) beneficiaries who have completed at least one year as registered beneficiaries under the Board. In case, both parents are eligible registered beneficiaries, assistance in respect of a child should not be extended to both parents, separately.
   Financial assistance under the scheme is being extended to students from class 6th onwards.
   A maximum of two children of a family are eligible to get the assistance.
   For 6th and 7th standard the scheme is applicable only in respect of girl children; whereas for class 8th onwards the scheme is applicable to both girls and boys.

Note 01: 20% additional benefit over and above the normal educational assistance is being extended by the Board in respect of girl child from class 8th onwards.
Note 02: The registered building and other construction beneficiaries should have made uptodate annual contributions to the Board.
Note 03: 50 % annual attendance of the student in a class for that academic year is required for availing the said assistance.
Note 04: The building and other construction beneficiary should have an active Bank Account with DBT enabled in his/her name. The application process is as follows: Step 01: For new users Click on the Registration link on the Scholarship Portal i.e. (https://scholarship.odisha.gov.in), existing users can click on the ‘Login’ button.
Step 02: Enter the Aadhaar number and proceed further.
Step 03: Check your registered mobile or email to get the user ID and password.
Step 04: Click on the login link at the portal and enter the User ID and password to apply for a scholarship.
Step 05: Provide all necessary details like personal academic, eligibility, and bank information.
Step 06: Click on the ‘Save as draft’ button to draft the information or click on the &amp;quot;Next&amp;quot; button to save and proceed with the scholarship form.
Step 07: The preview of the completed form will appear on the page. Download the forms and take its print out.
Step 08: The filledin application will be processed for verification and disbursement by the concerned District Labour Officer in the eShramik Portal of the Board.
Step 09: The educational assistance on being disbursed by the disbursing authority in the eShramik Portal of the Board, the same will automatically get updated in the State Scholarship Portal for information of all stakeholders. For more information, please refer to: Odisha State Scholarship Portal: https://scholarship.odisha.gov.in/website/scholarship-details Tags associated with the scheme include: Construction Worker, Educational Assistance, Nirman, Shramik, Student.