The name of this welfare scheme is Home for Mentally Challenged Children. It is also known as HMCC. The scheme &quot;Home for Mentally Challenged Children&quot; by the Department of Social Welfare, Government of Puducherry, aims to provide care for children facing mental challenges, i.e. low Intelligence Quotient (IQ). The scheme offers free boarding and lodging, uniform sets, daily living needs, and medical check-ups for the inmates. Additionally, it includes educational and recreational activities to enhance their overall well-being. The scheme targets beneficiaries such as Individual. It is specifically implemented in Puducherry. Additionally, the nodal department is Social Welfare Department, Puducherry.

The scheme provides the following benefits: Free boarding and lodging for all the inmates.
Free supply of 4 uniform sets to the inmates per year.
Free supply of all daily living needs for the inmates.
Free medical checkups, including paediatric and psychiatric services, for all the inmates.
Annual tours and local picnic trips to places of interest for the inmates.
Annual Day for prize distribution to winners in sports events and cultural programmes.
Nonformal education to assist and develop inmates in their daytoday activities.
Training in habits of discipline, cleanliness, good health, drawing, painting, yoga, and other extracurricular activities.



NOTE: Contact the authorities below in case of delay in disbursal of benefits:

Puducherry: The Director, Directorate of Social Welfare, Saradhambal Nagar, Ellaipillaichavadhy, Puducherry. Karaikal: The Collector, Karaikal.Mahe/Yanam: The Regional Administrator, Mahe/Yanam.

Eligibility criteria include: The applicant should qualify as ANY ONE of the following:

Boys in the age group of 7 to 17 years.
Mild Mental Retardedness with an IQ level between Moderate Mental Retardedness with an IQ level between Severe Mental Retardedness with an IQ level between Profound Mental Retardedness with an IQ level under Unspecified Mental Retardedness with mental efficiency and subnormality. The application process is as follows: Step 1: The interested applicant should visit (during office hours) the Office/ SubOffice of the Department of Social Welfare, and request the hard copy of the prescribed format of the application form from the staff exclusively entrusted to issue and collect filledin applications.
OR
The interested applicant should take print of the prescribed format of the application form.
Step 2: In the application form, fill in all the mandatory fields, paste the passportsized photograph (signed across, if required), and attach copies of all the mandatory documents (selfattest, if required).
Step 3: Submit the duly filled and signed application form along with the documents to the authority given below Puducherry: The Deputy Director, Differently Abled Section, Directorate of Social Welfare. Karaikal: The Assistant Director, Social Welfare Department (Sub Office).Mahe / Yanam: The Welfare Officer (i\c), Social Welfare Department (Sub Office). 
Step 4: Request a receipt or acknowledgement from the concerned authority to whom the application has been submitted. Ensure that the receipt contains essential details such as the date and time of submission, and a unique identification number (if applicable). For more information, please refer to: Citizen's Charter: https://socwelfare.py.gov.in/sites/default/files/citizen-charter.pdf Contact Us: https://socwelfare.py.gov.in/contact-us Sub Offices: https://socwelfare.py.gov.in/sub--office-social-welfare-department Grievance Redressal: https://pgportal.gov.in/ Tags associated with the scheme include: Child, Food, Home, Medical, Shelter, Sports.