The name of this welfare scheme is Distribution of Free House Sites to Scheduled Caste/Other Economically Backward Classes. It is also known as DFHSSCOEBC. Launched in 1981, the scheme “Distribution of Free House Sites to Scheduled Caste/Other Economically Backward Classes” by the Adi Dravidar Welfare Department, Government of Puducherry was introduced to distribute free house sites to Scheduled Caste and Other Economically Backward Classes. Through this scheme, the homeless poor Scheduled Caste people, and other Economically backward class people, who meet the eligibility criteria, are provided housing sites to enable them to construct their own houses. Approximately 11,000 persons so far have benefitted from this scheme. The scheme targets beneficiaries such as Individual, Family. It is specifically implemented in Puducherry. Additionally, the nodal department is Adi Dravidar Welfare Department, Puducherry.

The scheme provides the following benefits: Distribution of free house sites to Scheduled Caste/Other Economically Backward Classes.

Eligibility criteria include: The applicant should be a citizen of India.
The applicant should be a native or a permanent resident of the Union Territory of Pondicherry.
The annual family income should not exceed ₹24,The applicant should have attained the age of 18 years.
The applicant should be a homeless person.
No member of the family of the applicant should own a house/house site.
The applicant should have a bonafide intention to construct a house within 2 years. The application process is as follows: Step 1: The interested applicant should visit (during office hours) the Office/ SubOffice of the Adi Dravidar Welfare and Scheduled Tribes Welfare Department, and request the hard copy of the prescribed format of the application form from: The Director, Adi Dravidar Welfare Department, Thattanchavady, Puducherry – Step 2: In the application form, fill in all the mandatory fields, paste the passportsized photograph (signed across, if required), and attach copies of all the mandatory documents (selfattest, if required).
Step 3: Submit the duly filled and signed application form along with the documents to the concerned authority.
Step 4: Request a receipt or acknowledgment from the concerned authority to whom the application has been submitted. Ensure that the receipt contains essential details such as the date and time of submission, and a unique identification number (if applicable). For more information, please refer to: Guidelines: https://py.gov.in/sites/default/files/adwdistribution-free-house-sites-scheduled-caste.pdf Contact Us: https://adwelfare.py.gov.in/contact-us Tags associated with the scheme include: EBC, Economically Backward Class, House, Housing, SC, Scheduled Caste.