The name of this welfare scheme is Financial Assistance to Scheduled Castes for Funeral Rites. It is also known as FASCFR. The scheme “Financial Assistance to Scheduled Castes for Funeral Rites” was introduced by the Adi Dravidar Welfare Department, Government of Puducherry. The objective of the scheme is to provide financial assistance to the Scheduled Caste family for performing funeral rites of their deceased family member in order to get rid of the immediate hardship. The scheme targets beneficiaries such as Family. It is specifically implemented in Puducherry. Additionally, the nodal department is Adi Dravidar Welfare Department, Puducherry.

The scheme provides the following benefits: Financial assistance of ₹ 10,000/.

Eligibility criteria include: The deceased should be from a Scheduled Caste.
The applicant should be from a Scheduled Caste.
The applicant should be a close relative of the deceased.
The annual family income should be less than ₹ 2,00,000/.
The family members of the deceased should belong to the Union Territory of Puducherry by virtue of nativity or continuous residence of 3 years. The application process is as follows: Step 1: Visit the Official Website of the eDistrict Portal of the Government of Puducherry.
Step 2: At the top right corner of the home page, click &quot;Login&quot;. In the login screen, click &quot;Register a New Membership&quot;.
Step 3: On the Registration Page, fill in all the mandatory fields: Username, Password, Confirm Password, Personal Details (Full Name, First Name, Email Address, Address, Current Address, Gender, Date of Birth, Mobile Number). Agree to the declaration. Fill in the Captcha Code, and click &quot;Signup&quot;.
Step 4: Visit the Official Website of the eDistrict Portal of the Government of Puducherry.
Step 5: At the top right corner of the home page, click &quot;Login&quot;. In the login screen, provide your Username and Password, fill in the Captcha Code, and click &quot;Sign In&quot;.
Step 6: On the next screen, a list of schemes by the Government of Puducherry will be displayed Departmentwise.
Step 7: Click on the scheme you wish to apply for. You will be taken to its online application form.
Step 8: In the application form, fill in all the mandatory fields (marked with a red asterisk) and upload all the mandatory documents (selfattest if required). 
Step 9: Tick the declaration stating &quot;I hereby declare that the abovementioned details are true and correct as per the best of my Knowledge&quot;. Submit the application and note the application number for tracking your application. The application number will also be received on your Registered Mobile Number / Registered Email ID.
Track Your Application here
 Access the User Manual for Online Application here For more information, please refer to: Guidelines: https://adwelfare.py.gov.in/financial-assistance-scheduled-castes-funeral-rites Citizen's Charter: https://py.gov.in/sites/default/files/citizencharter-adidravidar.pdf Contact Us: https://adwelfare.py.gov.in/contact-us Track Your Application: https://edistrict.py.gov.in/User/TrackApplication.aspx Tags associated with the scheme include: Death, Family, Financial Assistance, Funeral, Scheduled Caste.