The name of this welfare scheme is National Awards For Outstanding Services In The Field Of Prevention Of Alcoholism And Substance (Drug) Abuse: Best Non-profit Institution With Outstanding Contributions To The Prevention Of Alcoholism And Substance (Drug) Abuse. It is also known as NAOSPASA-BNPIOCPASA. The Scheme of &amp;quot;National Awards for Outstanding Services in the field of Prevention of Alcoholism and Substance (Drug) Abuse&amp;quot; by the MoSJE, GoI shall be applicable to Institutions and Individuals working in the field of Prevention of Alcoholism and Substance (Drug) Abuse. In order to recognize the efforts, and, encourage excellence in the Prevention of Alcoholism and Substance (Drugs) Abuse and rehabilitation of its victims, awards will be presented, once in two years starting from the year 2016, for the most effective or outstanding  services as individuals as well as institutions in the prevention of abuse of:
(a) Alcohol
(b) Narcotic Drugs
(c) Psychotropic Substances
(d) Other Addictive Substances (Except tobacco and its products) e.g. cough syrups, correction fluid, etc
&lt;br&gt;

The Ministry of Social Justice and Empowerment is the nodal Ministry for drug demand reduction. It coordinates and monitors all aspects of drug abuse prevention, including assessment of the extent of the problem, preventive action, treatment and rehabilitation of addicts, dissemination of information and public education. The Ministry provides community-based services for the identification, treatment and rehabilitation of addicts through voluntary organizations. The awards (generally one in each category) will be presented, once in two years starting from 26th June 2016, which has been declared by the United Nations, as the International Day against Drug Abuse and Illicit Trafficking. The scheme targets beneficiaries such as NGO, Institution, Trust. Additionally, the nodal ministry is Ministry Of Social Justice and Empowerment and the nodal department is Department of Social Justice & Empowerment.

The scheme provides the following benefits: > Decoration

The Awardee is given a Citation, Memento, and a Cash award of ₹ 4,00,> No. of Awardees

The total number of Awardees is 7 (Seven).
Each Category of Award has 1 Awardee.


> Presentation of Award (Ceremony Details)


The awards shall be conferred on the awardees in a function to be held in New Delhi on the 26th June of the year, which has been declared as the “International Day against Drug Abuse and Illicit Trafficking”.
The Awards shall be presented by the President of India or the Prime Minister of India. 
The boarding and lodging expenses of the awardees including one companion for each awardee shall be borne by the Central Government. To and fro travelling expenses and accommodation for up to one day prior to and after the date of the Award ceremony (depending upon the actual arrival and departure dates) shall be arranged or expenditure reimbursed by the Central Government. Before the announcement of the Awards, the concurrence of the prospective awardees or institutions shall be suitably ascertained.

Eligibility criteria include: > For Award


The awards are open to all Indian Institutions, Organizations and Individuals without any distinction or discrimination on grounds of religion, race, sex, caste or creed.
It would be necessary that the nominee is recommended in writing by someone authorized to recommend the nominations.
The Selfnominations for the Awards shall not be considered.
No individual or organization who has been awarded should be considered for the National Award under this Scheme for the next three awards.



> Agencies/Persons Authorized to Nominate and recommend eligible institutions or individuals for the Awards


Concerned Ministries or Departments of the Government of India and their autonomous institutions with the approval of the Ministerincharge of the Ministry. 
State Governments or Union Territory Administrations with the approval of the concerned Chief Minister or Lt. Governors in Union Territory Administrations; 
Regional Resource and Training Centres working in the field of drug deaddiction within their own jurisdiction; 
Members of the National Consultative Committee on Deaddiction and Rehabilitation (NCCDR); 
Renowned Apex Chambers like the Federation of Indian Chambers of Commerce and Industry, Confederation of Indian Industry, The Associated Chambers of Commerce and Industry of India, etc; 
Past Awardees. 
Organizations like University Grand Commission(UGC), All India Council for Technical Education(AICTE), Medical Council of India(MCI), Nehru Yuva Kendra Sangathan(NYKS), Universities, 
Central Board of Secondary Education(CBSE), National Council of Educational Research and Training(NCERT), Kendriya Vidyalaya Sangathan(KVS), Navodaya Vidyalaya Samiti(NVS), Council of Scientific and Industrial Research(CSIR), etc; and 
Collector of the District/District Magistrate in which the Institution or Individual is working. 
Commissioner of Commissionerate in which the Institution or Individual is working. 

NOTE: Only nominations or recommendations emanating from Authorised Agencies or persons, designated for the purpose, supported by adequate justification, shall be considered.


> For Nominations

A.  For an IRCA the institute shall have a record of outstanding work in providing rehabilitation services to alcoholics and drug users. 
B.  An IRCA, to be eligible shall fulfil the following requirements namely:

A minimum of five years experience in the field of prevention of Alcoholism as substance (drug) abuse; 
Delivered comprehensive treatment services for people with alcoholism and drug dependence which includes followup and providing opportunities for rehabilitation; 
Adapted new techniques or undertaken new strategies for improving existing services; 
Made outstanding achievements in the areas of counselling or treatment or rehabilitation; 
Developed a family therapy module or offered services to cater to the problems of families of addicts; 
Developed a module to deal with relapse and continues to provide continuous support towards wholeperson recovery; 
Established or networked or provided a referral to vocational rehabilitation centres towards the rehabilitation of addicts and their families; 
Provided and continues to provide outreach services including conducting camps in villages and in small towns; 
Made and continues to make use of involvement of the community towards prevention of addiction, rehabilitation of treated addicts and dealing with issues related to stigma and discrimination; 
Outstanding ability towards documentation and periodical evaluation and making appropriate changes based on the feedback; 
Expertise and knowledge in creating databases related to details of patients along with followup and recovery status; and 
A proven record of credibility both in the delivery of services as well as in financial management uninterruptedly for the previous five years. The application process is as follows: The agencies or persons, authorized to nominate and recommend eligible institutions or individuals, should submit the application of the nominee in the Prescribed Proforma online on the National Awards Portal, Ministry of Home Affairs.
Note: The Application should be in Hindi or English language only.


> Selection of Awardees


   A Screening Committee and Selection Committee shall be constituted for the purpose which shall consider the achievements of the Institutions and the Individuals nominated or recommended for the Awards by the prescribed authority and the outstanding contribution in the field shall be the primary consideration in identifying the recipients of Awards.
   A National Selection Committee shall consider the recommendations of the Screening Committee and would approve the names of awardees, one for each category of the awards. For more information, please refer to: Guidelines: https://socialjustice.gov.in/writereaddata/UploadFile/NA636078226610282667.pdf Application Process: https://socialjustice.gov.in/writereaddata/UploadFile/41041651831143.pdf Awardpedia: https://awards.gov.in/Home/AwardLibrary Tags associated with the scheme include: Alcoholism, Award, Drug Abuse, Rehabilitation.