The name of this welfare scheme is National Handicrafts Development Programme: Research & Development Scheme. It is also known as NHDP-R&DS. The &amp;quot;Research &amp;amp; Development Scheme&amp;quot; is a component of the Umbrella Scheme &amp;quot;National Handicrafts Development Programme (NHDP)&amp;quot; by the Ministry of Textiles, Govt. of India. The scheme is introduced to generate feedback on the economic, social, aesthetic, and promotional aspects of various crafts and artisans in the handicraft sector. Under this scheme, the surveys and studies are sponsored/conducted to generate suitable inputs for planning purposes. Also, workshops, seminars, conferences, radio programs, etc. are organized in online as well as offline mode to sensitize the artisans on the latest development in the Handicrafts sector.
&lt;br&gt;

&gt; Key Highlights:

1.  Surveys &amp;amp; Studies
a) Surveys/ Studies of specific crafts and mapping and documentation of a database on craft clusters and specific craft pockets, present market trend and status, existing export and future export openings, etc.
b) Problem relating to the availability of raw materials, technology, design, common facilities, etc.
c) Socioeconomic condition of the artisan.
d) Market evaluation studies of specific crafts for either domestic or overseas markets.
e) Techno-economic feasibility studies and post-evaluation of the various promotional projects programs undertaken in the handicrafts sector.
2.  Financial Assistance for registration of GI crafts (including registration of authorized users), preparation of legal para, standards, audits, and other documentation leading to labeling/certification.
3.  Financial Assistance to organizations for evolving, and developing a mechanism for protecting crafts including Endangered crafts, design, heritage, and traditional knowledge.
4.  Conducting a Census of Handicraft artisans of the country and publishing the same in handbook/e-book format for future reference. 
5.  Assisting handicrafts exporters in the adoption of global standards, including handicrafts marks, branding, bar coding, and other similar standards
6.  Conducting workshops/seminars on issues of specific issues relating to the handicrafts sector.
7.  Evaluation / Impact Assessment Studies of Handicrafts Schemes.
8. Need-based financial assistance to Government departments/ministries, institutes of national importance and export promotional councils, etc. The scheme targets beneficiaries such as Business Entity, Government Organisation, Institution, Industries, NGO, Registered Societies, State Government, Trust. Additionally, the nodal ministry is Ministry Of Textiles.

It falls under the categories: Sports & Culture, Skills & Employment.

Eligibility criteria include: Grantsinaid can be given to a public body or an institution having a distinct legal entity viz. 

Institutions or Organizations setup as Autonomous Organisations, under a specific statute or as a society registered under the Societies Registration Act, 1860, or Indian Trusts Act, Producer Companies and Section8 Companies (Company Act, 2013).
NonGovernment Organizations.
Educational and Other Institutions.
Urban and Rural Local Selfgovernment Institutions.
Export Promotion Councils.
Central Cottage Industries Emporium (CCIC).
National Crafts Museum &amp; Hastkala Academy, New Delhi.
State/Central Govt. Agencies etc. 


The applicant should certify the following in the application form:

No financial assistance has been received from any other source for the same purpose.
The provision of the scheme has been fully understood and we take responsibility for the successful completion of the project within the sanctioned project duration.
All infrastructure is available with the organization to conduct the programs as per the scheme.
There is no duplication of efforts taking Place with existing schemes of the Ministries.
No UC is pending in any scheme of the O/o DC (Handicrafts).
The organization is registered with Public Finance Management System and will adhere to the Provisions/guidelines of the Department of Expenditure from time to time, in this regard. For more information, please refer to: Guidelines: http://handicrafts.nic.in/pdf/Scheme.pdf#page=1 Application Form: http://handicrafts.nic.in/cmsUpload/20220607105555proposal%20notice_0001.pdf Documents Required: http://www.handicrafts.nic.in/Pdf/final_citizen.pdf Tags associated with the scheme include: Grant-in-Aid, Handicraft, Research, Textile.