The name of this welfare scheme is National Beekeeping & Honey Mission. It is also known as NBHM. ain objectives of the scheme are: 
a)	Promoting holistic growth of beekeeping industry for income &amp; employment generation, providing livelihood support to farm and non-farm households and to enhance agriculture/ horticulture production;
b)	Developing additional infrastructural facilities for developing quality nucleus stock of honeybees, multiplication of stock by bee breeders, setting up of disease diagnostic labs, Integrated Beekeeping Development Centres (IBDCs)/ Centres of Excellence (CoEs) on Beekeeping, beekeeping equipment manufacturing units, etc. and postharvest and marketing infrastructures, including honey processing plants, storages/ cold storages, collection, branding,marketing, centre,etc.	 
c)	Setting up of State of the Art Quality Control Labs for testing of honey &amp; other beehive products at Regional Levels and Mini / Satellite Labs at Distt. Levels in main honey producing Districts/ States;
d)	To develop blockchain/ traceability system for traceability of source of honey &amp; other beehive products and using IT tools in beekeeping, including online registration, etc.;
e)	To develop and facilitate Honey Corridors in potential areas;
f)	To promote agri- entrepreneurs &amp; agri- startup for their involvement in beekeeping/ Honey production;
g)	To promote, develop and disseminate latest and State of the Art Technologies and skill development in beekeeping industry for production of honey &amp; other high value beehive products;
h)	Empowerment of Women through Beekeeping;
i)	To maximize, economic, ecological and social benefits by diversification through beekeeping by production of higher quantity and good quality of honey and other high value beehive products, viz.; bee wax, bee pollen, propolis, royal jelly, comb honey, bee venom, etc. for domestic and export market; and
j)	To strengthen beekeepers by developing institutional framework through collective approach viz.; formation of SHGs/ FPOs/ Beekeepers Cooperatives/ Federations, etc. The scheme targets beneficiaries such as Individual, State Government, Registered Societies, Self Help Groups (SHGS). The implementing agency is National Bee Board. Additionally, the nodal ministry is Ministry Of Agriculture and Farmers Welfare and the nodal department is Department of Agriculture & Farmers Welfare.

The scheme provides the following benefits: Details of activities envisaged, cost norms and pattern of assistance approved under Mini Mission I &amp; II and III can be checked at NBHM Guidelines.


The scheme envisages the following benefits:
1)	Enhances yields &amp; quality of produce of various crops viz., fruits, vegetables, pulses, oil seeds, etc. through pollination support
2)	Helps in sustainable development of Agriculture and Environment.
3)	Helps in maintaining Biodiversity
4)	Increases income of beekeepers/ farmers/ land less labours, etc. through production of honey &amp; other beehive products, viz.; Bees wax, Propolis, Pollen, Royal Jelly, Bee venom, comb honey, etc. which have great importance in human life.
5)	Generates employment.
6)	Serves as a source of livelihood
7)	It helps in prosperity of farmers, healthy people and strong Nation.
8)	Adopt Scientific Beekeeping for own and Nation’s prosperity.

Eligibility criteria include: Anyone can apply for the scheme The application process is as follows: Step 01: All the component scheme are project based (except Training/Seminar/Exposure visit)
Step 02:  Following implementing agencies will submit the projects directly do National Bee Board. (NDDB/NAFED/TRIFED/SFAC/ICAR/CAUS/ SAUS)
Step 03: Agencies Submitting projects through SLSC of State govt. like Department of Horticulture/Agriculture, Member Companies/firms/societies/SHGS/FIGS/FPC.
Step 04: Examination/appraisal of projects by board as per scheme guideline, norms &amp; submitted to PAC
Step 05: Project Appraisal committee (PAC)chaired by Horticulture Commissioner (Project appraised &amp; recommended up to 1 crore) and recommend to Execute Committee (EC) of Board chaired by Additional Secretary ( for more than 5 Cr per project).
Step 06: Project more than 5 crore are recommended to Project Appraisal &amp; Monitoring Committee (PA&amp;MC) chaired by Secretary (Agriculture) for approval.
Step 07: Once the project is approved, an applicant must first register on the Madhukranti Portal for Individual/Societies/FPOs and add details such as land details, and site layout land plan.
Step 08: Submit complete DPR as per guideline
Step 09: Apply for lifetime membership in case of member societies /firm/cooperatives For more information, please refer to: Guidelines: https://midh.gov.in/PDF/Guidelines%20NBHM.pdf Tags associated with the scheme include: Beekeeper, Entrepreneurs, Farmers, Honey FPO, Start Up.