The name of this welfare scheme is Pradhan Mantri Matsya Sampada Yojana. It is also known as PMMSY. The scheme &quot;Pradhan Mantri Matsya Sampada Yojana (PMMSY)&quot; was launched by the Department of Fisheries; Ministry of Fisheries, Animal Husbandry, and Dairying; to bring about ecologically healthy, economically viable, and socially inclusive development of the fisheries sector of India.


PMMSY shall bring about Blue Revolution through sustainable and responsible development of the fisheries sector in India at a total investment of ₹ 20,050 crore for holistic development of the fisheries sector including the welfare of fishers. PMMSY is implemented in all the States and Union Territories for a period of five years from FY 2020-21 to FY 2024-25. In the Union Budget 2023-24, a new sub-scheme under the PMMSY has been announced with an investment of Rs.6,000 crore to enable activities of fish vendors, fishermen, and micro and small enterprises for improving value chain efficiencies and expanding the market.


##### Objectives of PMMSY
1. Harness the potential of the fisheries sector in a sustainable, responsible, inclusive, and equitable manner.
2. Enhance fish production and productivity through expansion, intensification, diversification, and productive utilization of land and water.
3. Modernize and strengthen the value chain including post-harvest management and quality improvement.
4. Double fishers and fish farmers’ incomes and generate meaningful employment.
5. Enhance the contribution of the fisheries sector to Agricultural GVA and exports.
6. Ensure social, physical, and economic security for fishers and fish farmers.
7. Build a robust fisheries management and regulatory framework.


##### Targets of PMMSY


Fish Production and Productivity - 
1. Increasing fish production to 22 million metric tons by 2024-25 from 13.75 million metric tons in 2018-19.
2. Enhancing aquaculture productivity to 5 tons per hectare from the current national average of 3 tons.
3. Augmenting domestic fish consumption from 5 kg to 12 kg per capita.


Economic Value Addition - 
1. Increasing contribution of the fisheries sector to the Agriculture GVA to about 9% by 2024-25 from 7.28% in 2018-19.
2. Doubling export earnings to ₹ 1,00,000 crores by 2024-25 from ₹ 46,589 crores in 2018-19.
3. Facilitating private investment and growth of entrepreneurship in the fisheries sector.
4. Reduction of post-harvest losses from the reported 20-25% to about 10%.


Enhancing Income and Employment Generation - 
1. Generating 55 lakh direct and indirect employment opportunities along the value chain.
2. Doubling the incomes of fishers and fish farmers. The scheme targets beneficiaries such as Individual, Government Organisation, Business Entity, Industries, State Government. The implementing agency is Central Government And Its Entities Including National Fisheries Development Board; State/UT Governments And Their Entities; State Fisheries Development Boards; Any Other End Implementing Agencies As Decided By Department Of Fisheries. Additionally, the nodal ministry is Ministry of Fisheries,Animal Husbandry and Dairying and the nodal department is Department of Fisheries.

The scheme provides the following benefits: Financial assistance for fishing infrastructure: The scheme provides financial assistance to develop fishing infrastructure like fishing harbors, fish landing centers, fish markets, fish feed plants, fish seed farms, and fish processing units.Financial assistance for fish farmers: The scheme provides financial assistance to fish farmers for various activities like the construction of ponds, cages, hatcheries, and nurseries, and for the installation of aeration systems and other equipment.Assistance for fisheries management: The scheme provides financial assistance for the management of fishery resources through the adoption of scientific methods, setting up of fishery management plans, and developing fishery information systems.Creditlinked subsidy for fish farmers: The scheme provides a creditlinked subsidy for fish farmers to encourage them to take up fish farming as a business.Assistance for marketing and export of fish products: The scheme provides assistance for the development of cold chains, fish processing units, and packaging facilities to promote the export of fish products.

Eligibility criteria include: Fishers.
Fish Farmers.
Fish Workers and Fish Vendors.
Fisheries Development Corporations.
Self Help Groups (SHGs)/joint Liability Groups (JLGs) in the Fisheries Sector.
Fisheries Cooperatives.
Fisheries Federations.
Entrepreneurs and Private Firms.
Fish Farmers Producer Organizations/companies (FFPOs/Cs).
SCs/STs/Women/Differently Abled Persons.
State Governments/UTs and Their Entities.
State Fisheries Development Boards (SFDB).
Central Government and Its Entities. The application process is as follows: For the Centrally Sponsored Scheme Component of PMMSY
The Beneficiaries are required to submit their SelfContained Proposal/Detailed Project Report (DPR) in accordance with the operational Guidelines of the PMMSY to the District Fisheries Officer, of their domicile district or the District of the respective States/Union Territories in which they intend to take up the fisheries development activities.


For the Central Sector Scheme Component of PMMSY
The projects proposals in respect of the Central Sector Scheme Component of the PMMSY should be submitted to the Department of Fisheries, Government of India at the address mentioned below:


The Secretary 
Department of Fisheries
Ministry of Fisheries, Animal Husbandry, and Dairying
Government of India 
Room No221, Krishi Bhawan
New Delhi 110 001
email: secyfisheries@gov.in


NOTE: For the manner of submission of proposals, the stakeholders (intended beneficiaries) are required to consult the District Fisheries Officer of the District of the respective States/Union Territories in which they intend to take up the fisheries development activities. For more information, please refer to: Guidelines: https://pmmsy.dof.gov.in/new-download Tags associated with the scheme include: Agriculture, Farming, Fisheries.