The name of this welfare scheme is Nirman Shramik Auzaar Toolkit Sahayata Yojana. It is also known as NSATSY. The NIRMAN SHRAMIK AUZAAR TOOLKIT SAHAYATA YOJANA is a social welfare scheme launched by the Government of Jharkhand to provide financial assistance to registered construction workers in the state for the purchase of essential tools and equipment required for their work.


> Objectives


1. To improve the working conditions and productivity of construction workers in Jharkhand.
1. To reduce the financial burden on construction workers for purchasing essential tools and equipment.
1. To promote the overall socio-economic development of construction workers in the state. The scheme targets beneficiaries such as Individual. It is specifically implemented in Rajasthan. Additionally, the nodal department is Labour Department.

The scheme provides the following benefits: > Actual cost of purchasing tools/toolkit or ₹ 2,000/, whichever is less

Eligibility criteria include: The applicant must be a native of the Rajasthan state.
The applicant must be a registered construction worker for 3 years.
Amount payable only on purchasing tools/toolkits related to one&#39;s work or business.
The purchase of tools/toolkits will be done by the construction worker himself and the bill is required to be attached to the application. The application process is as follows: > Registration

Step1: Applicant have to visit the official portal. 
Step2: Click on the option “Register”.
Step3: Then you will be redirected to the SSO registration page. The registration page will appear with the following options.


  Citizen


Step4: Choose the either one option from  the Jan Aadhaar Or Google to process further.


  Jan Aadhaar : Enter the Jan Aadhaar number, click on the ‘Next’ button,


      Select your name, the name of the head of the family and all the other members and 
      Click on the ‘Send OTP’ button. Enter the ‘OTP’ and 
      Click on the ‘Verify OTP’ button to Complete the registration. 






  Google : Enter the Gmail ID, click on the ‘Next’ button, 


      Enter the password.
      A new link appear on screen, now click on the new SSO link.
      SSO id will appear on the screen, now create the password.
      Enter Mobile number, click on registration.




Step5: Submit.
 
> Apply 

Step1: Applicant have to visit the official portal. 
Step2: After login, dashboard will open.
Step3: Click on “LDMS” option.
Step4: In LDMS, select &quot;Welfare Schemes&quot; from the side menu and select BOCW Welfare Board. 
Step5: Now click on &quot;Apply for Scheme&quot; on screen. 
Step6: In this new page, will get a list of names of all the schemes of Rajasthan Shramik Card, out of which click on the name of &quot;Yojana&quot;
Step7: Fill out the all relevant detail. 
Step8: Submit. For more information, please refer to: Guidelines: https://jankalyan.rajasthan.gov.in/#/scheme/detail/227 Registration: https://sso.rajasthan.gov.in/register Apply: https://sso.rajasthan.gov.in/signin Tags associated with the scheme include: Empower, Finance, Labor, Tools.