The name of this welfare scheme is Assistance Scheme for Occupational Diseases (GBOCWWB). It is also known as ASOD(GBOCWWB). The “Assistance Scheme for Occupational Diseases” is implemented by the Gujarat Building and Other Construction Worker’s Welfare Board (GBOCWWB), Labour, Skill Development &amp;amp; Employment Department, Government of Gujarat. Under the scheme, financial assistance is given to registered construction workers for 15 types of occupational diseases and 23 types of serious injuries. The scheme targets beneficiaries such as Individual. It is specifically implemented in Gujarat. The implementing agency is Gujarat Building And Other Construction Worker’s Welfare Board. Additionally, the nodal department is Labour and Employment Department.

The scheme provides the following benefits: Free medical treatment and monthly assistance of ₹1500/shall be provided to the registered construction worker under normal circumstances in case of less than 90% disability.
   Free medical treatment and monthly assistance of ₹3000/shall be provided to the registered construction worker in case of 90 to 100% disability.
   The above assistance shall be provided up to a maximum limit of ₹3,00,000/.
   Financial assistance is provided to the registered construction workers for 15 types of occupational diseases and 23 types of serious injuries.

&gt; Terms and Conditions:

Labourers falling under the category of construction workers as determined by the State Government from time to time, who should be registered with the Board as construction workers, shall be treated free of cost in a hospital approved by the State Government.

Eligibility criteria include: The construction workers registered with the Gujarat Building and Other Construction Worker’s Welfare Board will be eligible to get the benefit of this scheme.
   The registered worker who has any type of disability due to an occupational disease or any serious injuries can avail of the benefits under this scheme. The application process is as follows: &gt; Application Process for ‘ENirman Card’ under the GBOCWWB:

Step 01: The applicant may visit the eNirman Portal: https://enirmanbocw.gujarat.gov.in/
Step 02: On the home page, under the tab ‘Login to Portal’, click on ‘Please Register Here’.
Step 03: Enter all the mandatory information and then click on ‘Register’.
Step 04: After successful registration, the applicants can login through their User ID and Password.
Step 05: Now, update your profile by entering all the necessary details as required and click on ‘Update’.
Step 06: Select the ‘Construction Works Form’ and fill out all the mandatory information in the form.
Step 07: Upload all the relevant documents, agree with the terms &amp;amp; conditions, and submit the form.
Step 08: Once the application has been submitted, an application Number is generated which can be kept for future reference.
&gt; Process to track Application Status:

Step 01: The applicant may visit the eNirman Portal: https://enirmanbocw.gujarat.gov.in/
Step 02: On the home page, click on ‘View Citizen Application Status’.
Step 03: Enter the Application Number and Date of Birth.
Step 04: Now click on ‘View Status’.
&gt; Application Process for Scheme Benefit:

Step 01: The applicant may visit the Sanman Portal: https://sanman.gujarat.gov.in/
Step 02: On the home page, under the tab ‘Citizen Login’, click on ‘Please Register Here’.
Step 03: Enter your Aadhaar Card Number, select user type, and then enter ENirman Card Number.
Step 04: Now, click on ‘Fetch’ &amp;amp; submit the details.
Step 05: After successful registration, the applicants can login through their User ID and Password.
Step 06: Now, select the scheme and read the instructions carefully for the selected scheme.
Step 07: Fill out the application form and upload all the relevant documents.
Step 08: Agree with the Rules &amp;amp; Regulations and submit the application form. A confirmation email with the application Number will be sent to the registered email ID. Step 01: The applicant may visit the district office of District Office of the Labour Welfare Board and collect the application form.
Step 02: Fill out the form completely and attach all the relevant documents.
Step 03: Submit the filled application form to the District Project Manager. 
Step 04: The District Project Manager will submit it online.
Step 05: It will then be approved by the District Inspector.
Step 06: Then it will be submitted to the State Project Manager of the Head Office.
Step 07: It will then be approved by the Government Labour Officer of the Head Office and subsequently by the Member Secretary.
Step 08: After approval of the application DBT will be credited to the worker&amp;#39;s account. For more information, please refer to: Official Website: https://sanman.gujarat.gov.in/Home/BOCWScheme# Guidelines: https://bocwwb.gujarat.gov.in/Portal/Document/10_370_1_Assistance_Scheme_in_Occupational_Diseases.pdf Sanman Portal: https://sanman.gujarat.gov.in/ E-Nirman Portal: https://enirmanbocw.gujarat.gov.in/Index.aspx Tags associated with the scheme include: Building Worker, Construction Worker, Financial Assistance, Free Medical Treatment, Injuries, Labour, Occupational Diseases.