The name of this welfare scheme is Assistance Scheme For Reimbursement For Expenditure On Visa By Construction Workers For Employment Abroad. It is also known as ASFRFEVCSEA. The Reimbursement of Expenditure Incurred on Visa for Employment Abroad to Construction Workers is a scheme implemented in the state of Rajasthan to provide financial assistance to construction workers who are seeking employment abroad. Under this scheme, registered construction workers in Rajasthan who have secured employment in foreign countries are eligible for reimbursement of expenses incurred on obtaining the necessary visa and related documentation. 


To be eligible for this scheme, the construction worker must be registered with the Construction Workers Welfare Board in Rajasthan and provide proof of employment in a foreign country. The aim of this scheme is to reduce the financial burden on construction workers who are seeking employment abroad by providing financial support for expenses related to obtaining visas, which can often be a significant expense. This scheme aims to promote the welfare of construction workers and support them in their efforts to secure employment opportunities abroad. The scheme targets beneficiaries such as Individual. It is specifically implemented in Rajasthan. Additionally, the nodal department is Labour Department.

It falls under the categories: Skills & Employment.

Eligibility criteria include: Applicant should be a resident of Rajasthan State.
 Applicant should be registered as Construction Worker under labor laws.


Other Conditions
 For getting contract employment abroad, it is necessary to take permission for migration from the office of Protectors of Emigrants (POE) under the Migrant Act, Registration of the recruiting agency under the Overseas Act or a valid permit from the POE office is necessary.
 Reimbursement of visa amount under the above scheme will be payable on the beneficiary passport having a minimum validity of 6 months including valid visa.
 Under the scheme, the benefit of assistance amount will be payable to the beneficiary only once.
 During scrutiny of application and documents, if any facts found to be false resulting in the cancellation of eligibility, it will be the responsibility of the concerned beneficiary to deposit all the assistance amount sanctioned under the scheme along with interest.              
 The benefit of this scheme will be payable only if the beneficiary is employed abroad, is in the building and other construction works. For more information, please refer to: Labour Department Website: https://labour.rajasthan.gov.in/Schemes.aspx# Tags associated with the scheme include: Abroad, Assistance, Construction Worker, Employment, VISA.