The name of this welfare scheme is 'Financial Assistance for Setting Up of Sales Emporia by Industrial Associations, Handicrafts Societies and Recognized Institutions' under 'Marketing And Publicity'. It is also known as FASUSEIAHSRI-MP. The scheme &#39;Financial Assistance for Setting Up of Sales Emporia by Industrial Associations, Handicrafts Societies and Recognized Institutions&#39; under &#39;Marketing And Publicity&#39;  was launched by the Department of Industries and Commerce, Union Territory of Puducherry. Through this scheme, financial support will be provided via the Industrial Associations, Handicrafts Societies and Recognized Institutions for promotion of Handicrafts, Coir, Jute, Micro and Small Industrial products, i.e. for acquiring suitable buildings/premises and providing infrastructure facilities for setting up of Sales emporia locally and in important cities in India. The scheme targets beneficiaries such as Business Entity. It is specifically implemented in Puducherry. Additionally, the nodal department is District Industries Centre Organization.

The scheme provides the following benefits: Financial support via the Industrial Associations, Handicrafts Societies and Recognized Institutions.
Promotion of Handicrafts, Coir, Jute, Micro and Small Industrial products.
Acquisition of suitable buildings/premises and infrastructure facilities for setting up of Sales Emporia locally and in important cities in India.

Eligibility criteria include: The applicant should be an artisan/unit industrialist from Puducherry. The application process is as follows: Step 1: The interested applicant should take print of the prescribed format of the application form.
Step 2: In the application form, fill in all the mandatory fields, paste the passportsized photograph (signed across, if required), and attach copies of all the mandatory documents (selfattest, if required).
Step 3: The interested applicant should visit (on a working day, and during office hours) the District Industries Centre (Thattanchavady, Puducherry 605 009), and submit the duly filled and signed application form and the documents to the concerned authority.
Step 4: On receipt of the application, necessary entries will be made in the application receipt register and a unique number is assigned to the applicant for identifying each applicant which shall be used for all further references and also as acknowledgement for the receipt of the application. For more information, please refer to: Citizen's Charter: https://dic.py.gov.in/sites/default/files/citizencharter.pdf Application Form: https://dic.py.gov.in/application-forms-download-area Contact Us: https://dic.py.gov.in/contact-us Grievance Redressal: https://industry.py.gov.in/grievance-redressal-mechanism Tags associated with the scheme include: Business, Coir, Emporia, Handicraft, Infrastructure, MSME, Sales.