The name of this welfare scheme is State Agriculture Scholarship for B.Sc. & M.Sc. Agriculture. It is also known as SASBMA. The scheme “State Agriculture Scholarship for B.Sc. &amp;amp; M.Sc. Agriculture” was launched by the Department of Agriculture, Government of Nagaland to provide educational assistance to students who are undergoing undergraduate (B.Sc. Agriculture) and post-graduate programme (M.Sc. Agriculture).
Objectives:

  - To strengthen human resource development by upgrading technical expertise.
  - To support the students/scholars undergoing graduate and post-graduate studies in Agriculture disciplines within and outside the state. The scheme targets beneficiaries such as Individual. It is specifically implemented in Nagaland. The implementing agency is Department Of Agriculture, Government Of Nagaland. Additionally, the nodal department is Agriculture Department.

The scheme provides the following benefits: Under the scheme, the eligible students will get the scholarship at the following rates:
Sl. No.Programme NameScholarship Amount1B.Sc. Agriculture₹700/per month2M.Sc. Agriculture₹900/per monthThe State Department of Agriculture also provides book grants &amp;amp; reimbursements annually to the enrolled students under the programme.

Eligibility criteria include: A student should fulfill the following criteria to be eligible for this Scholarship:

   State Agriculture Scholarship will be applicable for all the inhabitants of Nagaland pursuing for B.Sc. or M.Sc. Agriculture.
   The applicant must be from an Institution which has a valid AISHE/UDISE code.
   Students who have failed in their last examination (repeaters) are not eligible to apply.
   Applicants must not be a beneficiary of any other scholarship scheme. The application process is as follows: All eligible students shall apply through the Common Scholarship Portal: https://scholarship.nagaland.gov.in
Step 01: Registration

  To register, visit the official Common Scholarship Portal of Nagaland: https://scholarship.nagaland.gov.in  Create an Account: If you are a new user, click on the &amp;quot;Register&amp;quot; option. Provide your MOBILE Number linked with AADHAAR to get an OTP and verify the mobile. Once Mobile is verified, provide essential details such as your name, email address and create a unique password. Click on the &amp;quot;Register&amp;quot; button to proceed.

Step 02: Login

  Login to Your Account: Once your mobile number is verified, log in to your scholarship account using the credentials you created during registration.
Step 03: Fill in the User Profile

  Personal Details: Update your personal information, including name, date of birth, gender, category, Bank Account Details, etc.
Step 04: Apply for Scholarship

  Select your Scholarship Scheme, Institution, Institution State, Institution, District and proceed.
  Academic Information: Provide details about your educational background, such as school/college name, course, year of study, etc.
Step 05: Upload Documents

  Upload Required Documents: Depending on the scholarship you are applying for, you will need to upload supporting documents. Commonly required documents include:
Step 06: Verify and Submit

  Review Your Application: Carefully review all the information you have entered and the documents you have uploaded. Make sure everything is accurate and complete.  Submit Application: Once you are satisfied with your application, click on the &amp;quot;Submit&amp;quot; button.

Step 07: Track Your Application

  Application Tracking: After submitting your application, you can track its status on the portal: https://scholarship.nagaland.gov.in/. Log in to your account and check for updates on your application&amp;#39;s status regularly.
Note 01: In case errors are found after submission, please delete the application and ReSubmit.
Note 02: If you have received a Scholarship in the previous year, kindly select ‘YES’ and provide the previous years Application ID while filing profile.
Note 03: In case of any issues kindly email the helpdesk with details of Registered Mobile Number, previous years Application ID (if applicable), your query, and or any Screenshot / Error Message. Kindly allow us 24 hrs (working days) to check and respond to your emails.
Note 04: The Bank Account must be that of the applicant. The application form will be rejected if the Bank Account is not of the applicant.
Note 05: The Department will not be responsible for nonreceipt of scholarship amount due to wrong/inactive bank account details provided by the applicant.
Note 06: Applicant is warned that if he/she gives false statements/declarations/documents etc. or otherwise obtained a scholarship through fraudulent means, he/she will be blacklisted and debarred from getting a scholarship under this scheme or any other scholarship schemes for the entire period of his/her studies. The scholarship amount if already paid will also be recovered.
Note 07: Incomplete/wrong entries in the eform or incomplete enclosure of necessary documents will be subjected to rejection. Correction/rectification after online submission will not be entertained. If the applicant prefers not to apply online, he/she can visit a Common Service Center (CSC) near you. The staff at CSCs will assist in the application process, ensuring a smooth experience.
Step 01: Locate the nearest CSC by contacting the Helpline Number.
Step 02: Visit the CSC in person and inform the staff about the service you want to apply for.
Step 03: Provide the necessary documents and information to the CSC staff.
Step 04: The CSC staff will guide the applicant through the application process, help the applicant fill out the forms, and submit the application on behalf of the applicant. For more information, please refer to: Guidelines: https://scholarship.nagaland.gov.in/storage/Guidelines//5_Guidelines Official Website: https://agriculture.nagaland.gov.in/education-and-training/#:~:text=The%20State%20Department%20of%20Agriculture,%2C%20reimbursements%2C%20thesis%20grant%20etc. Common Scholarship Portal: https://scholarship.nagaland.gov.in/ Tags associated with the scheme include: Agriculture, BSc, MSc, Scholarship, Student.