The name of this welfare scheme is Group Insurance for Differently Abled Person Government Employees. It is also known as GIDAPGE. The scheme “Group Insurance for Differently Abled Person Government Employees&quot; was launched by the Department of Social Welfare, Government of Puducherry. In this scheme, in the case of death due to accident while in service the sum insured will be given to the family of the deceased employee. The scheme targets beneficiaries such as Individual. It is specifically implemented in Puducherry. Additionally, the nodal department is Social Welfare Department, Puducherry.

The scheme provides the following benefits: In case of death due to accident while in service the sum insured as follows will be given to the family of the deceased employee:

Group A: ₹ 1,20,000/.Group B: ₹ 60,000/.Group C: ₹ 30,000/.Group D: ₹ 15,000/.

Eligibility criteria include: The applicant should be a Native/Resident of the Union Territory of Puducherry for at least 5 years.
The applicant should have a disability of 40% or above.
The applicant should be a government servant. The application process is as follows: Step 1: The interested applicant should visit (during office hours) the Office/ SubOffice of the Department of Social Welfare, and request the hard copy of the prescribed format of the application form from the staff exclusively entrusted to issue and collect filledin applications.
OR
The interested applicant should take print of the prescribed format of the application form.
Step 2: In the application form, fill in all the mandatory fields, paste the passportsized photograph (signed across, if required), and attach copies of all the mandatory documents (selfattest, if required).
Step 3: Submit the duly filled and signed application form along with the documents to the authority given below Puducherry: The Deputy Director, Differently Abled Section, Directorate of Social Welfare. Karaikal: The Assistant Director, Social Welfare Department (Sub Office).Mahe / Yanam: The Welfare Officer (i\c), Social Welfare Department (Sub Office). 
Step 4: Request a receipt or acknowledgement from the concerned authority to whom the application has been submitted. Ensure that the receipt contains essential details such as the date and time of submission, and a unique identification number (if applicable). For more information, please refer to: Guidelines: https://socwelfare.py.gov.in/group-insurance-differently-abled-person-government-employees Contact Us: https://socwelfare.py.gov.in/contact-us Sub Offices: https://socwelfare.py.gov.in/sub--office-social-welfare-department Grievance Redressal: https://pgportal.gov.in/ Tags associated with the scheme include: Banking, Disability, Employee, Government, Insurance.