The name of this welfare scheme is Cancer Suraksha Scheme. It is also known as Css. The Government of Kerala launched the “Cancer Suraksha Scheme” on 1st November 2008 for children below the age of 18 who suffer from cancer and belong to such families which are too poor to afford treatment. This scheme was launched under Kerala Social Security Mission. Those patients found eligible would be registered under the scheme and a Patient Card would be issued. Registered patients would be provided treatment free of cost at the designated hospitals. On further verification, if it is found that any registered patient is ineligible for assistance, the assistance would be stopped forthwith.
             Cancer, the killer disease, was once considered incurable. However, advances in medical science have helped conquer the disease to a very large extent. It is scientifically proven that pediatric cases of cancer are largely curable if treated early. Recognizing the urgent need to extend financial support to cancer victims from families, who are too poor to afford treatment, the Government of Kerala launched this scheme.
            To provide cashless transactions funds have already been deposited with the superintendents of the hospitals. The patients who are eligible for assistance would receive the benefit from these hospitals directly without approaching the Mission.
Hospitals Covered under the Scheme:

   1. Regional Cancer Centre, Thiruvananthapuram
   1. Government Medical College Thiruvananthapuram
   1. Sree AvitamThirunal (SAT) Hospital, Thiruvananthapuram
   1. Government Medical College Alapuzha
   1. Government Medical College Kottayam
   1. Government Medical College Thrissur
   1. Government Medical College Kozhikode
   1. Co-operative Medical College Pariyaram, Kannur
   1. Malabar Cancer Centre, Thalassery, Kannur
   1. Government General Hospital, Ernakulam
   1. Institute of Maternal and Child Health, Kozhikode
   1. Govt. Medical College Hospital, Ernakulam The scheme targets beneficiaries such as Individual. It is specifically implemented in Kerala. The implementing agency is Kerala Social Security Mission. Additionally, the nodal department is Social Justice Department.

The scheme provides the following benefits: Under this scheme, children under 18 years would be given free treatment for cancer through designated Government hospitals in the state.
   The entire cost of treatment, including the cost of investigations, would be borne by the hospitals through the funds provided by the Mission.
   The ceiling of expenditure per child would be initially ₹50,000/.

Note: The hospital can incur additional expenditure, based on the report of the committee comprising the Oncologist/treating doctor, the Head of the Radiology Department, and the Superintendent, subject to ratification by the Mission.

Eligibility criteria include: The applicant should be a resident of Kerala State and scheme is applicable only to patients from Kerala.
   Cancer patients up to the age of 18 years in the Below Poverty Line (BPL) groups are eligible to be included in this scheme.
   Cancer patients should belong to families which are too poor to afford treatment.
   To be included in this scheme a confirmed diagnosis of cancer is a must.
   Those patients who are yet to complete 18 years of age and need treatment are eligible for the benefit for one more year. The application process is as follows: To avail of the benefits of the scheme, the applicant may contact the following authorities:
Scheme counselor who is appointed at selected hospitals/covered hospitals under this scheme.
Concerned District Social Justice Officer. For more information, please refer to: Official Website: https://socialsecuritymission.gov.in/scheme_info.php?id=MQ== Scheme Details: https://palakkad.nic.in/en/scheme/cancer-suraksha/ Tags associated with the scheme include: BPL, Cancer, Free Treatment, Hospital, Patients.