The name of this welfare scheme is West Bengal Student Credit Card Scheme. It is also known as WBSCCS. This scheme is designed to support the students to pursue secondary, higher secondary, madrasah, undergraduate and post graduate studies including professional degree and other equivalent courses in any School, Madrasah, College, University and other affiliated institutes within and outside India. Students studying in various coaching institutions for appearing in different competitive examinations like Engineering, Medical, Law, IAS, IPS, WBCS etc, can also avail the loan under this scheme. The scheme targets beneficiaries such as Individual. It is specifically implemented in West Bengal. Additionally, the nodal department is Higher Education Department.

The scheme provides the following benefits: Points

The Scheme provides a maximum loan of ₹10,00,000/at a 4% simple annual interest rate after interest subvention.
The interest rate for loans up to ₹10,00,000/is set at the prevailing 3year MCLR of State Bank of India plus 1%, fixed at the time of sanction.
Students can access the loan at any point during their course of study.
Both the student and the parent/legal guardian must cosubmit the loan application.
An agreement between the student, parents/legal guardians, and the bank will formalize the loan terms.

Margin money:

Up to ₹4,00,000/: Nil
Above ₹4,00,000/: 5%
Scholarships/assistance ships included
Paid prorata as disbursements are made

Security:

No unnecessary restrictions or collateral security
No security/collateral other than coobligation of parents/legal guardians
State government to enter separate agreement with banks

Insurance:

Life cover for student up to loan amount
Premium paid by student and debited from loan account

Time limits:

The Higher Education Department and the School Education Department will communicate on loan sanctioning and disbursement process timeline after receiving approval from the competent authority.

Eligibility criteria include: Indian citizen &amp; resident of West Bengal for 10 years (selfdeclaration).
Applicant should not be aged more than 40 years at application time.
Applicant should enrolled in higher education programs within or outside the country in schools, madrasahs, colleges, universities, IITs, IIMs, IISc, IIESTs, ISIs, NLUs, AIIMSs, NITs, XLRI, BITS, SPA, NID, IIFTs, ICFAI Business School, etc. or studying in coaching institutes for various competitive exams such as Engineering, Medical, Law, IAS, IPS, WBCS, SSC, etc.



Note: Students upload progress reports after each semester/year. The application process is as follows: Applicant have to visit the official website and click on &quot;STUDENT CREDIT CARD&quot;Now Click on “STUDENT REGISTRATION” option and select the one option from the following

  For institutions in India.  For institutions outside India.
Provide the require details for online registration process and click on “Submit” button to generate user id and password. 
After completion of the registration process a unique id will be generated.
Now with the credentials need to log in through clicking on “Student Login” button from the home page
Here the candidate need to furnish their all details which can be accessed through the “Applicant Dashboard.”

  Personal Details
  CoBorrower And Present Address Details
  Permanent Address And Course &amp; Income Details
  Bank Details Of Students And CoBorrower
  Upload the required documents.

Submit. For more information, please refer to: Guidelines: https://wbscc.wb.gov.in/assets/SCC_Schme_Gazette_Notification.pdf FAQ: https://wbscc.wb.gov.in/assets/FAQ.pdf Official Website: https://wbscc.wb.gov.in/ Tags associated with the scheme include: Education Loan, Financial Assistance, Higher Study.