The name of this welfare scheme is Biju Swasthya Kalyan Yojana. It is also known as BSKY. Biju Swasthya Kalyan Yojana (BSKY) is a scheme under the Department of Health and Family Welfare, Government of Odisha aims to provide universal health coverage, with special emphasis on the health protection of vulnerable families and women. Its primary objective is to provide financial protection and improve access to healthcare services for the people of Odisha, particularly targeting economically disadvantaged families. To achieve its objectives, the BSKY has two components:-

   1. State Government will bear full cost of all health services delivered to all patients (irrespective of income, status or residence) in all State Government health care facilities starting from Sub center level to District Head Quarter and Government Medical College Hospital and Blood Bank level.
   1. State Government will bear the cost of healthcare provided in empaneled private hospitals for over 96.5 lakh economically vulnerable families in the State, amounting to Annual Health coverage of Rs. 5 lakh per family and additional Rs. 5lakh for the women members of the family after exhaust of initial limit. 

At all empaneled private hospitals families having BSKY Smart Health Card can avail cashless treatment at any empaneled private hospital under BSKY within or outside the State. Card holder families can avail facilities such as registration, consultation, medical tests, pathologies, treatment, IPD and follow-up consultation under BSKY at any empaneled private hospitals, for which State Government will bear the cost upto the annual coverage amount. The State Government will collect direct Feedback from beneficiaries and Hospitals in respect of this scheme. The citizens can share their feedback on 14545.  Grievance Redressal Helpline Number is 155369 (6 AM to 10 PM) &amp;amp;amp; 104 (24 x 7). The scheme targets beneficiaries such as Family, Individual. It is specifically implemented in Odisha. The implementing agency is State Health Assurance Society (SHAS). Additionally, the nodal department is Health and Family Welfare Department.

The scheme provides the following benefits: Families having BSKY Smart Health Card/ NFSA/ SFSS card can avail of cashless IPD and Day care treatment for the procedures for which the hospital is empaneled under BSKY within or outside the State up to the annual amount covered.  The scheme provides cashless health coverage of ₹5,00,000 per annum per family and an additional ₹5,00,000 for women members of the family after exhaustion of the initial limit at empaneled private hospitals within and outside Odisha.

  PACKAGES

The updated package list under BSKY, as modified from time to time is available on the website www.bsky.odisha.gov.in. About 3% of the total packages are reserved for Government health institutions. About 10% of the packages are under the referral category, which can be availed only on referral by the appropriate authority. 
Reserved Packages
Treatment under these packages is only available in Govt. healthcare facilities. Treatment for minor ailments, and diseases under National Health Programs such as Management of superficial burns, minor injuries, Malaria, Typhoid fever, Gastroenteritis, Diarrhea, Dysentery, Tuberculosis, Urinary Tract Infection, Heat stroke, and surgeries for hydrocele, Abscess drainage, Lipoma and cyst excision and procedures like Dilatation and Curettage and MTP are reserved for Government facilities.   
Referral Package
The updated list of referral packages is available on the website www.bsky.odisha.gov.in. 
Open Packages
Any beneficiary can directly walk into any empaneled private hospital and avail of the treatment under this category of packages if he is found suitable for that package by the treating doctor of the empaneled hospital.

Eligibility criteria include: All BSKY Smart Health Card/ National Food Security Act (NFSA)/ State Food Security Scheme (SFSS) card holders are eligible.
For the referral of the patient to the empaneled private hospital for treatment:

   The referral will be done if the particular package/ procedure cannot be provided by a Government facility in the district. 
   Cases will be referred if there is a long waiting time to undertake the procedure at a Government facility in the district. 
   Where there is an emergency case that requires immediate referral.
   Referral process under BSKY is decentralized up to the SubDivisional Hospital level. The following authorities have been designated to issue referrals to beneficiaries under BSKY.


  District Headquarter Hospital: CDM &amp;amp; PHO/ District Medical Officercum Superintendent &amp;amp; concerned Specialist.  Subdivisional Hospital: Superintendent &amp;amp; concerned Specialist.  All Govt. Medical College &amp;amp; Hospitals: Superintendent &amp;amp; HoDs of concerned Department of the Medical College &amp;amp; Hospitals The application process is as follows: There is no direct enrolment process under Biju Swasthya Kalyan Yojana. 
   All families covered under NFSA / SFSS within Odisha are eligible beneficiaries under this scheme.

&gt; For BSKY Smart Health Cards


   BSKY Smart Health Cards are distributed by the Government to each family. 
   The beneficiary can also collect her/his BSKY Smart Health Card at designated Mo Seva Kendra by producing her/his valid NFSA/ SFSS Card.

Note: For latest development about this scheme, beneficiary may visit the official website at: https://bsky.odisha.gov.in/bsky/home For more information, please refer to: Guidelines: https://bsky.odisha.gov.in/application/storage/app/uploads/6387534f7ee441669813071.pdf FAQs: https://bskydashboard.odisha.gov.in/public/bsky/imgs/FAQ-English-new.pdf Website: https://bsky.odisha.gov.in/bsky/home Know Your Scheme: https://ganjam.odisha.gov.in/sites/default/files/2023-06/2018112983.pdf Tags associated with the scheme include: Financial Protection, Healthcare, Smart Health Card.