The name of this welfare scheme is "Subsidy for the Purchase of Fiber-reinforced Plastic Cattamaran/ Vallam/ Wooden Nava/ Marine Plywood Canoe With Nets" under "Financial Assistance for Availing Subsidy Components for the Development of Marine Fisheries". It is also known as SPFRPCVWNMPCN-FAASCDMF. The scheme &quot;Subsidy for the Purchase of Fiber-reinforced Plastic Cattamaran/ Vallam/ Wooden Nava/ Marine Plywood Canoe With Nets&quot; is a Sub-Component under the Umbrella Scheme &quot;Financial Assistance for Availing Subsidy Components for the Development of Marine Fisheries&quot; by the Department of Fisheries and Fishermen Welfare, Government of Puducherry. The scheme is introduced with the objective of increasing marine fish production by extending subsidies to the fishermen for the procurement of fiber-reinforced plastic vallam with nets. The scheme targets beneficiaries such as Individual. It is specifically implemented in Puducherry. Additionally, the nodal department is Fisheries and Fishermen Welfare Department, Puducherry.

The scheme provides the following benefits: 50% subsidy subject to a maximum of ₹50,000 per unit in case of fibrereinforced plastic catamaran and marine plywood canoe with nets, linked to own finance/loan component from National Cooperative Development Corporation/bank.
50% subsidy subject to a maximum of ₹1,00,000 per unit in case of fibrereinforced plastic vallam with nets, linked to own finance/loan component from National Cooperative Development Corporation/bank.
50% subsidy subject to a maximum of ₹40,000 per unit in respect of wooden nava with net, linked to own finance/loan component from National Cooperative Development Corporation/bank.
50% subsidy to a maximum of ₹5,000 per unit for the procurement of inland catamaran with nets (unit cost ₹10,000).

The rate of subsidy may be fixed by the Government from time to time.

Eligibility criteria include: The applicant should either belong to the fishermen community or be one of those professionally engaged in fishing/fish trade occupation on a fulltime basis/prospective entrepreneurs.
The applicant must have resided in the Union territory of Puducherry for a continuous period of not less than five years at the time of applying for extending subsidies/ grants. 
The applicant must have been enrolled as a member of the Fishermen Cooperative Society and be above the age of 23 years and below 60 years.
The applicant must not have been a recipient of Old Age Pension, issued by the department. 
The applicant should not be employed in Government/ Government Undertakings/Fishermen Cooperative Society. 
The applicant must not have any dues to be paid to the Department/Fishermen Cooperative Societies at the time of making the application. 
In the case of male applicants, they should possess sea fishing experience in any mechanized or motorized/nonmotorized traditional crafts for a minimum period of 5 years, issued by the owners. 
In the case of women applicants, they should possess five years of fish trade experience issued by the Village Panchayat concerned.
The applicant should be ready to deposit 50% of the cost of craft and net with the Federation/Marketing Union/the Fishermen Cooperative Societies as per the norms/pattern of assistance modified from time to time. The application process is as follows: Step 1: The interested applicant should visit the Office/ SubOffice of the Department of Fisheries and Fishermen Welfare.
Step 1: The interested applicant should request the hard copy of the prescribed format of the application form from the concerned authority.
Step 2: In the application form, fill in all the mandatory fields, paste the passportsized photograph (signed across, if required), and attach copies of all the mandatory documents (selfattest, if required).
Step 3: Submit the duly filled and signed application form along with the documents to the concerned authority.
Step 4: Request a receipt or acknowledgment from the concerned authority to whom the application has been submitted. Ensure that the receipt contains essential details such as the date and time of submission, and a unique identification number (if applicable). For more information, please refer to: Guidelines: https://fisheries.py.gov.in/sites/default/files/reimbursement20of20hsd20notification.pdf Application Form: https://fisheries.py.gov.in/subsidies-application List Of Sub-Offices: https://fisheries.py.gov.in/sub-offices Contact Us: https://fisheries.py.gov.in/contact-us Tags associated with the scheme include: Boat, Financial Assistance, Fisherman, Procurement, Subsidy.