The name of this welfare scheme is Technology Development And Utilization Programme For Women. It is also known as TDUPW. &gt; Introduction

In order to meet the specific needs of women and to enhance the contribution of women towards technology capability building, the “Technology Development &amp;amp; Utilization Programme for Women (TDUPW)” has been formulated by the Department of Scientific and Industrial Research (DSIR). DSIR has a mandate to carry out activities relating to indigenous technology promotion, development, utilization and transfer. DSIR under its “Technology Development and Utilization Programme for Women (TDUPW)” provides assistance for those projects which are relevant to technology development and utilization by the women.
&lt;br&gt;

&gt; Objectives


   1. Promoting the adoption of new technologies by women. 
   1. Awareness creation and training of women on technology-related issues with regard to women. 
   1. Promoting Technological upgradation of tiny, small and medium enterprises run by women entrepreneurs. 
   1. Showcasing appropriate technologies and organizing demonstration programmes for the benefit of women.
   1. Design and development of products, and processes beneficial to women. The scheme targets beneficiaries such as Individual. Additionally, the nodal ministry is Ministry Of Science And Technology and the nodal department is Department of Scientific and Industrial Research.

The scheme provides the following benefits: > Duration of the Project

The project should be timebound, depending upon the nature of the project. Normally a duration of less than 2 years is preferred.


> Quantum of Financial Assistance


Assistance will be provided for those projects which are relevant to technology development and utilization by the women.
Assistance can be by way of financial support (partial or full) and technical guidance. 
The financial assistance will be provided only for meeting expenditures on Manpower, Consumables, travel within the country and other miscellaneous expenditures. 



Note 1: The type of assistance required by the institution should be clearly indicated in the proposal. 
Note 2: No support will be provided for basic infrastructure and buildings.


> Method of Release of Financial Assistance


The assistance will be released in instalments and will be linked to specific milestones achieved as per the time schedule indicated in the proposal. 
The release would also be dependent on the completion of formalities like submission of progress reports and Utilization Certificates.

Eligibility criteria include: > For Projects

Studies/ surveys for the assessment of technologyrelated information needs of women in different walks of life.
Documentation and content development on the following aspects:
      &gt;  Technologies useful for production activities, personal care and community management including food processing, water conservation, waste disposal, maintenance of health and hygiene, etc. 
      &gt;  Best practices in the use of technology to strengthen the competitiveness of gainful activities by women. 
      &gt;  Contribution of women innovators/entrepreneurs. 
      &gt;  Contribution of women scientists/ technologists working in various Scientific laboratories. 
      &gt;  Technologies and products beneficial to women. 
Establishing Consultancy Cells for imparting technical knowledge on the adoption of the latest technologies. 
Awareness creation and training of women in technologies useful for production activities, personal care, and community management, including food processing, water conservation, waste disposal, etc.
Case studies of successful R&amp;D, Technology Development and businesswomen.


> For Institutions


Organisations in the Government, nonGovernment sectors and professional bodies working on areas related to the development of technologies for women with adequate experience in the field are eligible for financial assistance. 
Also, the agency should be involved in promotional activities related to S&amp;T/ R&amp;D entrepreneurship development, SME, promotion, etc. 
Organizations seeking assistance under the programme should belong to one of the following categories:

      &gt;  Institutions receiving annual recurring grants from the Central or State Government Agencies including the Council of Scientific and Industrial Research, Indian Universities, academic institutions, R&amp;D institutions, Public Sector Undertakings, etc.
      &gt;  Institutions registered under the Societies Registration Act.
      &gt;  Institutions incorporated under the Companies Act.
      &gt;  Professional &amp; industry Associations.
      &gt;  Trusts registered under Indian Trusts Act. The application process is as follows: > Submission of the Proposals

The applications are open throughout the year. One set of hard copy of the proposal, along with the required (selfattested) documents, should be sent by speed post to: 
Dr. Sujata Chaklanobis
Scientist &#39;G&#39; and Head A2K+
Department of Scientific and Industrial Research
Technology Bhawan, New Mehrauli Road
New Delhi110016
Tel: 01126520887, 2659 0277
Fax: 01126520887
Email: priya@nic.in


> Sanction of the Project


The project proposals received for assistance would be considered by the ‘Technical Advisory Committee (TAC)’ of the Ministry. The committee may also take the advice of an internal Screening Committee duly constituted for the purpose and/or the advice of external experts and/or the Ministry concerned with the subject matter. The proposals, which are accepted by the TAC, will be further processed for administrative/financial approval and a sanction letter would be issued indicating the amount of assistance under different budget heads, schedule of payment and other conditions of assistance. 

> Release of Funds


The institutions receiving the assistance are then required to accept the conditions formally and sign an agreement on a judicial stamp paper of Rupees Ten only or an MOU as the case may be and as per GOI rules. On signing the agreement and its submission, the first instalment of assistance would be released. Step 1: Visit the Service Plus Portal
Step 2: Register yourself on the portal. The applicants are required to register in the name of the organization. The applicant organization name should preferably be the parent Legal entity with Darpan Portal registration under the same name.
Note: The nongovernment voluntary organizations are also required to submit Organization’s Unique ID in NGO Darpan Portal while registering at Service Plus Platform.
Step 3: After registering, the applicant organization can log in with the registered login credentials.
Step 4: The TDUPW scheme can be reached through Apply for Services &gt; View all Available services &gt; Technology Development and Utilization Programme for Women (TDUPW). Search &quot;TDUPW&quot; for quick access.
Step 5: In the Online Application Form, fill in all the required fields, upload all the mandatory documents in PDF format, and submit the application. The applicant organization will receive an Acknowledgement receipt where it will have the Application Reference Number (App Ref No.). 


> Check Application Status

The applicant may check the application status as: Login &gt; View Application status &gt; Track Application status &gt;App Ref No. &gt; Get Data. For more information, please refer to: Guidelines: https://dsir.gov.in/sites/default/files/2019-11/TDUPW_Brochure.pdf List Of Supported Projects: https://dsir.gov.in/list-projects-supported-5-jun-09-0 Contact Us: https://dsir.gov.in/technology-development-utilization-programme-women-tdupw Application Process: https://dsir.gov.in/online-application-submission Tags associated with the scheme include: Capacity Building, Research, Science, Technology, Women.