The name of this welfare scheme is Breed Multiplication Farm Entrepreneurship. It is also known as BMFE. It is proposed to make available a 50% capital subsidy (limited to Rs. 2.00 Crore) to the interested entrepreneur for the construction of cattle sheds, equipment, procurement of elite bull mothers etc. The entrepreneur will establish a breed multiplication farm (BMF) and produce elite heifers using sexed semen or IVF technology. 
Disease-free heifers (free from at least TB, JD &amp;amp; Brucella) produced at the BMF will be sold to interested farmers and HGM bulls born at BMF will be procured by semen stations for semen production, subject to qualifying Minimum Standards for production of frozen semen. BMF will also act as the training centre to conduct training for farmers and entrepreneurs.
There is no system available in the country for producing disease-free elite animals of indigenous breeds of cattle and buffalo or exotic breeds of cattle. Therefore it is proposed to establish breed multiplication farms through an entrepreneurship model to make available disease-free high-yielding heifers/pregnant heifers /cows preferably of indigenous breeds of cattle/buffaloes in the country. 
&lt;br&gt; The scheme targets beneficiaries such as Individual, Self Help Groups (SHGS). It is specifically implemented in Mizoram. Additionally, the nodal department is Animal Husbandry and Veterinary Department.

It falls under the categories: Agriculture,Rural & Environment.

Eligibility criteria include: The applicant shall be an entrepreneuraggregator /private individual, SHGs/FPOs/FCOs/ JLGs and Section 8 companies who have their registered offices in India.
   Entrepreneur/applicant shall have appropriate experience in breeding or rearing dairy animals
   The entrepreneur/applicant will be responsible for arranging land of suitable size and location. At least having ownership/lease deed of 5 acres of land.
   The entrepreneur/applicant will make its own arrangement for the procurement of feed and fodder as per the requirement of the farm
   The entrepreneur will establish a breed multiplication farm of at least 200 milch cows/buffalo and use the latest breeding technology to continuously upgrade the stock. For more information, please refer to: Details: https://ahvety.mizoram.gov.in/uploads/attachments/2e2033ccb4f81a68125d2531528b92a7/breed-multiplication-farm-entrepreneurship-scheme-english.pdf Tags associated with the scheme include: Breed Multiplication Farms, Cattle And Buffalo Breeding, Farmers Scientist Interaction, Forconstruction Of Cattle, Heifers Of Cattle And Buffaloes.