The name of this welfare scheme is “Home for the Aged" under Grant-in-Aid to Pondicherry Society for the Care of the Aged (PONCARE). It is also known as HFTA-GIAPSCA. The sub-scheme “Home for the Aged&quot; under the umbrella scheme &quot;Grant-in-Aid to Pondicherry Society for the Care of the Aged (PONCARE)&quot; was launched by the Department of Social Welfare, Government of Puducherry. Through this scheme, the senior citizens are provided with stay at subsidiary rates, food (both vegetarian and non-vegetarian), routine health check up by doctors thrice in a week, providing news papers and television for entertainment. The scheme targets beneficiaries such as Individual. It is specifically implemented in Puducherry. Additionally, the nodal department is Social Welfare Department, Puducherry.

The scheme provides the following benefits: Stay at Subsidiary Rate of ₹1200/for the Inmates.
Food (Both Vegetarian and Nonvegetarian).
Routine Health Check Up by Doctors Thrice in a Week.
Newspapers and Television for Entertainment.

Eligibility criteria include: The applicant should be 60 years or above in age.
The applicant should be a Native/Resident of the Union Territory of Puducherry for at least 5 years. The application process is as follows: Step 1: The interested applicant should visit (during office hours) the Pondicherry Society for the care of the Aged (PONCARE), Puducherry, 4th Cross Sithankudi, 6th Cross Extension, Brindavanam, West, Puducherry 605 013, +914132245317, +914132246318, +919443405499, and request the hard copy of the prescribed format of the application form from the staff exclusively entrusted to issue and collect filledin applications.
Step 2: In the application form, fill in all the mandatory fields, paste the passportsized photograph (signed across, if required), and attach copies of all the mandatory documents (selfattest, if required).
Step 3: Submit the duly filled and signed application form along with the documents to The Secretary, PONCARE.
Step 4: Request a receipt or acknowledgement from the concerned authority to whom the application has been submitted. Ensure that the receipt contains essential details such as the date and time of submission, and a unique identification number (if applicable). For more information, please refer to: Citizen's Charter: https://socwelfare.py.gov.in/sites/default/files/citizen-charter.pdf Contact Us: https://socwelfare.py.gov.in/contact-us Sub Offices: https://socwelfare.py.gov.in/sub--office-social-welfare-department Grievance Redressal: https://pgportal.gov.in/ Tags associated with the scheme include: Doctor, Food, Home, Senior Citizen, Social Welfare.