The name of this welfare scheme is Galvanizing Organic Bio-Agro Resources Dhan (GOBARdhan). It is also known as GOBARDHAN. Galvanizing Organic Bio-Agro Resources Dhan (GOBARdhan) was launched by the Ministry of Drinking Water &amp; Sanitation in April 2018 as a part of the Solid and Liquid Waste Management component under the Swachh Bharat Mission (Grameen) to positively impact village cleanliness and generate wealth and energy from cattle and organic waste. The main focus of GOBARDHAN is to keep villages clean, increase the income of rural households, and generate energy and organic manure from cattle waste. As rural India has already attained the Open Defecation Free (ODF) status, the importance of GOBARDHAN has increased as it supports the villages in achieving ODF-plus status, which is an important objective of Swachh Bharat Mission (Grameen) Phase II.


GOBARDHAN: Waste to Wealth program has been designed to provide a common platform for schemes of different Ministries/Departments such as the Ministry of New and Renewable Energy (MNRE); Ministry of Petroleum and Natural Gas (MoPNG); Department of Animal Husbandry and Dairying (DAHD); Department of Agriculture, Cooperation and Farmers Welfare (DACFW); Department of Rural Development; and Department of Drinking Water and Sanitation (DDWS). DDWS is the coordinating Department for the implementation of the scheme. DDWS also provides technical and financial assistance to States/UTs for the implementation of GOBARDHAN projects under SBM-G.


Objectives

1. To support villages in effectively managing their cattle waste, agricultural waste/residue, and all other organic waste
1. To support communities to convert their organic waste (especially cattle dung) to wealth through the generation of manure and energy out of waste
1. To create livelihood opportunities in rural areas and enhance the income of farmers and other rural people by supporting them to convert their waste to wealth
1. To promote rural entrepreneurship by involving entrepreneurs, SHGs, and Youth Groups in the setting up and operation and management of biogas plants
1. To promote environmental sanitation and curb vector-borne diseases through effective disposal of waste in rural areas Additionally, the nodal ministry is Ministry Of Jal Shakti and the nodal department is Department of Drinking Water and Sanitation.

It falls under the categories: Utility & Sanitation, Agriculture,Rural & Environment.

Eligibility criteria include: For Individual Household Model: Individual Households identified by the Gram Panchayats.For Cluster Model: Cluster of Households identified by the Gram Panchayats, in association with Cooperatives, Milk Unions, Farmer Producer Organizations (FPOs), SHGs, CBOs developed under DAYNRLM, Private entrepreneurs, etc. These households should have a minimum of 3 to 4 cattle.For Community Model: Households identified by the Gram Panchayats.For Commercial Model: Entrepreneurs/Cooperatives/Gaushalas/Dairies, etc. are eligible to setup large biogas/Compressed Biogas (CBG) plantsVillages with a high population of cattle should be taken on priority. For more information, please refer to: Framework For Implementation: https://sbm.gov.in/gbdw20/Documents/GobardhanFramework.pdf Technical Manual: https://sbm.gov.in/gbdw20/Documents/GobardhanTechnicalManual.pdf Brochure: https://sbm.gov.in/gbdw20/ManualPage.aspx Infographic (Hindi): https://sbm.gov.in/gbdw20/DetailImages.aspx Queries / Grievance: https://sbm.gov.in/gbdw20/grievance.aspx Tags associated with the scheme include: Agriculture, Renewable Energy, Solid Waste Management.