The name of this welfare scheme is Marriage Incentive Reward Scheme. It is also known as MIRS. This is a State Sponsored Scheme and only the citizens who are domiciled in the State of  Uttar Pradesh can apply to this scheme. By the Government of Uttar Pradesh, the Marriage Incentive Reward scheme was initiated prizes are given to Divyangjan for getting married. The marriage should be registered with the Registrar of the State and one or both should be a differently able person. The scheme targets beneficiaries such as Individual. It is specifically implemented in Uttar Pradesh. Additionally, the nodal department is Empowerment of Persons With Disabilities Department, Uttar Pradesh.

The scheme provides the following benefits: In the case of the young man with the disability: Rs. 15,000/is provided. 
In the case of the girl with the disability Rs. 20,000/is provided. 
In case of disability of both young man and girl Rs. 35,000/is provided.

Eligibility criteria include: Certificate of minimum 40% disability.
The couple should be a permanent resident of Uttar Pradesh or its domicile for at least five years.
None of the members of the couple has been convicted in any criminal case.
The age of the girl child in the couple should not be less than 18 years and not more than 45 years at the time of marriage. 
The age of the man should not be less than 21 years and not more than 45 years  at the time of marriage
No one from the couple is an income taxpayer.
The marriage has been registered. The application process is as follows: First, the applicants have to visit the official portal.Now, click on the registration.Fill out the application form. 

i. Type and percentage of disability of the couple.
ii. Couple Name.
iii. Present Address of the Couple.
iv. Marriage Registration Certificate.

Submit the application form.
Note: The desired information has to be given on all the points mentioned in the application form. It is mandatory to submit a hard copy of the online application form to the District Disabled Empowerment Office of your district within 15 days). For more information, please refer to: Guidelines: https://uphwd.gov.in/article/en/disabled-people-to-marry-award Official Website: http://divyangjan.upsdc.gov.in/ Application Form: http://divyangjan.upsdc.gov.in/DefaultMrgForm.aspx?Type=u5fH6rnyiuD38jR61vmRCQ%3d%3d&appid=9OYR9kUytIsLilKZieD5xg%3d%3d Tags associated with the scheme include: Empowerment, Financial Assistance, Social Welfare, Widow Marriage.