The name of this welfare scheme is Shram Yogi Prasad Scheme. It is also known as SYPS. The &amp;quot;Shram Yogi Prasad Scheme&amp;quot; by the Building and Other Construction Workers Welfare Board, Labour Department, U.T. Administration of Dadra and Nagar Haveli and Daman and Diu, is a welfare scheme for the registered workers of the board. Under this scheme, the Board shall provide mid day meal and breakfast to the BOCW registered construction workers under the scheme at a concessional rate of ₹5/- per worker everyday.
&lt;br&gt; The scheme targets beneficiaries such as Individual. It is specifically implemented in The Dadra And Nagar Haveli And Daman And Diu. Additionally, the nodal department is Labour & Employment Department, Dadra and Nagar Haveli.

The scheme provides the following benefits: MidDay Meal and Breakfast Supply: Mid day meal and Breakfast at a concessional rate of ₹5/per worker everyday.
The time for supply of mid day meal and breakfast are as under:

  Supply of Breakfast: 07:00 A.M to 08:00 A.M. (Place near HDFC Bank, Silvassa and Kilvani Naka, etc).  Supply of mid day meal: 12:00 P.M to 02:00 P.M.

Eligibility criteria include: &gt; For Registration as a Building/ Construction Worker:


  The applicant should be a resident of U.T. Administration of Dadra and Nagar Haveli and Daman and Diu.
  The applicant should be a Building/ Construction Worker.
  The applicant should be between 18 and 60 years.
  The applicant should have engaged in any building or other construction work for at least 90 days in a given year.

&gt; For the Application of the Welfare Scheme:


  The applicant should be a registered member under the Building and Other Construction Workers Welfare Board of U.T. Administration of Dadra and Nagar Haveli and Daman and Diu. The application process is as follows: &gt; Registration Process as a Building/ Construction Worker:

Step 1: Application for registration is to be made in the prescribed form and is to be accompanied by prescribed documents and a fee of not more than ₹50/.
Step 2: Application for registration has to be made to the officer authorized by the Board on this behalf.
&gt; Application Process of the Welfare Scheme:

Step 1: Any registered worker can make an application in the prescribed FormXII (Refer Page No: 17)  along with the mandatory documents  (self attested, if required).
Step 2: Application shall be submitted to the Member Secretary (BOCWWB) for this benefit.
&gt; Helpdesk:

BOCW Department:
EMAIL ID: labourdnh@nic.in
PHONE NUMBER : 0260 2642374
ADDRESS:
Old Circuit House Building,
Opposite Bal Bhawan, Silvassa,
Dadra and Nagar Haveli
Pin:396230 For more information, please refer to: Guidelines: https://www.daman.nic.in/websites/Printing-press-Daman/documents/2020/Extraordinary/Extra%20Ordinary%20No.%2029.pdf Tags associated with the scheme include: Breakfast, Building Worker, Construction Worker, Food, Labour, Mid Day Meal.