The name of this welfare scheme is Post Matric Scholarship To Scheduled Caste Students Of Nagaland. It is also known as PMSSCSN. Detailed 
The Directorate of Higher Education (DHE) has launched the Post Matric Scholarship to ST students of Nagaland scheme for providing socio-economic welfare to the students belonging to the residentship of Nagaland state. The student must be studying or getting admission to the post-matric class (class 11th, 12, UG, PG Degree).
&lt;br&gt;

Post-matric Scholarship for ST Scholarship is awarded to the students of the Scheduled Tribe (ST) category by the Ministry of Tribal Affairs, Government of India. The objective of the ST scholarship is to provide financial assistance to these students to complete their studies at the college level.
&lt;br&gt; The scheme targets beneficiaries such as Individual. It is specifically implemented in Nagaland. Additionally, the nodal department is Department of Higher Education.

The scheme provides the following benefits: Benefits

To provide social security provisions to the students of postmatric classes.
Students will be able to pursue studies.
To provide financial assistance to these students to complete their studies at the college level.
Providing socioeconomic welfare to the students belonging to the residentship of Nagaland state.

Eligibility criteria include: Eligibility 

   The applicant must be pursuing postmatric (above class X) studies and belong to the Scheduled Tribe of Nagaland. 
   The Annual Income of the applicant‘s parents/guardians from all sources must not exceed ₹ 50 lakh (Rupees Two Lakh Fifty Thousand). 
   Applicant must be from Institution which has a valid AISHE/UDISE code. 
   Students who have failed their last examination (repeaters) are not eligible to apply. 
   Students who have availed of this scholarship at one stage of education and have passed but are studying in the same stage of education in a different stream/subject. For example, a student who is currently pursuing a B.A. course but has passed BCom and availed of this scholarship while pursuing a BCom course will not be eligible to apply. 
   Students having study breaks of more than 2 (two) years are not eligible to apply for this scholarship. 
   Applicant must not be a beneficiary of any other scholarship scheme.
   Applicant must not be an employee of any government/semi government establishment. 
   Students pursuing Diploma/Certificate Course can also apply provided they fulfil the above criteria (18) and their course duration is not less than two years. 
   Students studying in NIOS can also apply, provided they fulfil criteria 1 to 8 and have the following subject combination. a) For class 11 and 12 level course, the applicant must have passed class 10 with the following subject combination. i) English ii). Alt English or MIL iii) Science iv) Maths and v) Social Science. The application process is as follows: Application Process

   Institutions are to inform/notify to the students about the scholarship and set a dateline for receiving their forms and documents.
   Institutions are to verify the form and documents and compile Annexure IV for eligible applicants. Transaction/Application ID of all Post Matric ST Scholarship forms start with the scheme code PMS. The Excel format of Annexure IV can be downloaded from the Directorate’s website https://highereducation.nagaland.gov.in.
   Bank Account should be in the name of the applicant. If an applicant furnished Bank Account other than his/her own Account, the Application Form of such student/applicant should be rejected.
   The institution should see to it that it displays/publishes the list of the eligible/rejected applications for any claims/objection/correction before submitting Annexure IV to this Office. This is required in order to avoid any undesirable issues/complaints after the submission of Annexure IV.
   The Department will not entertain any request for inclusion in Annexure IV or submission of Annexure IV after the last date.
   Institutions are to submit the following in regard to the Post Matric ST Scholarship. (a) Both Soft copy (Excel Format) and Hard copy of Annexure IV (see instruction in Annexure IV) (b) For MPhil/PhD applicantsForms and enclosed documents (c) Forwarding/covering letter
   Head of the Institutions/ In charge of scholarship at the Institutions should ensure that all necessary documents that have been mentioned are intact and genuine including the Hostel forms. For more information, please refer to: Official Website: https://scholarship.nagaland.gov.in/ Details: https://highereducation.nagaland.gov.in/scholarship-schemes/ Guidelines: https://highereducation.nagaland.gov.in/wp-content/uploads/2017/07/Post-Matric-ST-2021-22.pdf Tags associated with the scheme include: Higher Education, Nagaland, Post Matric Scholarship, Scheduled Caste, Student.