The name of this welfare scheme is IVRI Institute Scholarship For M.V.Sc. And Ph.D.. It is also known as IVRI IS. The Indian Veterinary Research Institute will award scholarships to MVSc and PhD students 


IVRI Scholarship is admissible to only those candidates who are admitted through competitive entrance examination for MVSc/PhD degree programmes. The award to the fresh students shall be made by the Joint Director (Acad.) of the Institute on the recommendation of the ‘Standing Committee on Scholarship, Financial Assistance and Academic Progress’ which shall take into consideration the merit of each applicant based initially on his/her admission and subsequently on his/her performance at the Institute.


Master Programme at IVRI Deemed University
The candidates for admission to Master’s programme must have Bachelor’s Degree in Veterinary Science in the concerned discipline as specified below as specified by the Veterinary Council of India with a minimum of 60% marks in aggregate (55% for SC/ST or sponsored candidates) or equivalent CGPA.


Admission for MVSc program will be held on the basis of all India Competitive Examination conducted by the Education Division, Indian Council of Agricultural Research, New Delhi. All the candidates including sponsored (in-service) for seeking admission to MVSc programme must have to appear in the written Examination. For more information related to Competitive Examination, please visit the Education Division, ICAR, New Delhi website.(www.icar.org.in.)


The main subjects/disciplines of study in which various degrees will be offered are as follows: 
1. 	Animal Biochemistry
2. 	Animal Biotechnology
3. 	Animal Genetics and Breeding
4. 	Animal Nutrition
5. 	Bio-Statistics
6. 	Epidemiology
7. 	Livestock Economics
8. 	Livestock Production and Management
9. 	Livestock Products Technology
10. 	Poultry Science
11. 	Veterinary Bacteriology
12. 	Veterinary Extension Education
13. 	Veterinary Gynaecology and Obstetrics
14. 	Veterinary Immunology
15. 	Veterinary Medicine
16. 	Veterinary Parasitology
17. 	Veterinary Pathology
18. 	Veterinary Pharmacology
19. 	Veterinary Physiology
20. 	Veterinary Public Health
21. 	Veterinary Surgery &amp; Radiology
22. 	Veterinary Virology


Admission for MVSc programme will be held on the basis of all India Competitive Examination conducted by the Education Division, Indian Council of Agricultural Research, New Delhi. All the candidates including sponsored (in-service) for seeking admission to MVSc programme must have to appear in the written Examination. For more information related to Competitive Examination, please visit the Education Division, ICAR, New Delhi. 


Doctoral Programme at IVRI
75% seats for Doctoral Programmes, including sponsored seats are to be filled on the basis of all India Entrance Examination conducted by the Institute and remaining 25% seats (subject to atleast one seat for each discipline) will be filled-up on the basis of All India Competitive Examinations for award of ICAR’s Senior Research Fellowship [AICE-SRF {PGS}] conducted by Education Division, ICAR, New Delhi. 


The candidates for admission to PhD programme must have MVSc degree in the concerned discipline as specified below with a minimum CGPA 6.50/10.00 scale, 3.25/5.00 scale, 2.60/4.00 scale for General and OBC categories and 5.50/10.00 scale, 2.75/5.00 scale, 2.20/4.00 scale for SC/ST/Physically challenged/ Sponsored candidates, respectively from any recognized University in India or where grade-points are not awarded and only marks are awarded, the candidate must have secured atleast 60% marks for General/OBC category. For SC/ST/Physically challenged/Sponsored category candidates, the minimum percentage of marks will be 50%. The scheme targets beneficiaries such as All. The implementing agency is Indian Council Of Agricultural Research (ICAR). Additionally, the nodal ministry is Ministry Of Agriculture and Farmers Welfare and the nodal department is Department of Agriculture Research and Education.

It falls under the categories: Education & Learning.

Eligibility criteria include: Entrance Requirements:
The Indian Veterinary Research Institute will award a scholarship to MVSc and PhD students on the following terms and conditions: 
IVRI Scholarship is admissible to only those candidates who are admitted through competitive entrance examination for MVSc/PhD degree programmes. It is essential to maintain a CGPA of 00 out of 00 at the end of each semester for Masters&#39;s or Doctoral Degree students for getting the Scholarship.


Master Programme at IVRI:
The candidates for admission to the Master’s programme must have Bachelor’s Degree in Veterinary Science in the concerned discipline as specified by the Veterinary Council of India with a minimum of 60% marks in aggregate (55% for SC/ST or sponsored candidates) or equivalent CGPA. 


Doctoral Programme at IVRI: The candidates for admission to PhD programme must have an MVSc degree in the concerned discipline as specified below with a minimum CGPA of 50/00 scale, 25/00 scale, 60/00 scale for General and OBC categories and 50/00 scale, 75/00 scale, 20/00 scale for SC/ST/Physically challenged/ Sponsored candidates, respectively from any recognized University in India or where gradepoints are not awarded and only marks are awarded, the candidate must have secured at least 60% marks for General/OBC category. For SC/ST/Physically challenged/Sponsored category candidates, the minimum percentage of marks will be 50%.


Age limit
The minimum age limit for PhD candidates shall be 23 years. There will be no upper age limit. The age shall be reckoned as of 1st August of the academic session. For more information, please refer to: Guidelines: http://www.ivri.nic.in/academics/fellowships.aspx Tags associated with the scheme include: IVRI Institute, Scholarship.