The name of this welfare scheme is Mahatma Jyothiba Phule Overseas Vidya Nidhi for BC and EBC Students. It is also known as MJPOVNBCEBCS. The scheme “Mahatma Jyothiba Phule Overseas Vidya Nidhi” was launched by the Backward Classes Welfare Department, Government of Telangana for meritorious students belonging to Backward Classes and economically Backward Classes to pursue Higher Studies in foreign universities. The scheme will be initially sanctioned to (300) BC &amp;amp; EBC Students every year and is open to all eligible graduates to pursue postgraduate studies abroad. The scheme targets beneficiaries such as Individual. It is specifically implemented in Telangana. The implementing agency is Backward Classes Welfare Department, Government Of Telangana. Additionally, the nodal department is Backward Classes Welfare Department.

The scheme provides the following benefits: Fees: Fees shall be payable in two installments as follows:
InstalmentI: An amount of ₹00 Lakhs shall be payable to the Institution/students upon production of the landing permit /I94 card (Immigration Card)/VISA Stamping/Boarding pass.
InstalmentII: An amount of ₹00 Lakhs shall be payable to the Institution/students upon production of the 1st Semester results.
Sanction Proceedings specifying the amount of ₹00 Lakhs will be issued to the individual towards fees and living expenses by way of a grant subject to his/her joining into the Course to the Candidates selected by the Selection Committee. The sanction proceedings can be used by the Candidates to obtain a Visa from the respective Embassy.
The Student shall be eligible for an educational loan of ₹00 lakhs from any Nationalized bank at prevailing rates of interest.
The awardees are permitted to supplement their prescribed allowances by undertaking Research/Teaching Assistance ship.
Oneway cheap ticket (Lower fare) by economy class through the shortest route shall be payable upon production of valid visa and admission particulars.
The total visa fees shall be reimbursed to the student upon production of a valid visa and production of receipts.

Eligibility criteria include: The applicant should be a resident of Telangana.
   The applicant should belong to the Backward Classes &amp;amp; Economically Backward Classes community.
   The student’s age should be less than 35 years as of 1st July of the year of advertisement.
   Family income shall be less than ₹00 Lakhs per annum from all sources.
   Only 1 child from a family is eligible.
   Qualification for PostGraduation Course: 60% marks or equivalent grade in foundation Degree in Engineering/Management/Pure Sciences/Agriculture Sciences/Medicine &amp;amp; Nursing/Social Sciences/Humanities.
   The awardee cannot be considered for the second or subsequent times as the individual can be awarded only once in a lifetime.
   The students should have a valid TOFEL/IELTS or GRE /GMAT or PTE score.
   The students should have obtained admission to an accredited Foreign University.
   The students should possess a valid Passport.

&gt; Countries Eligible:

USA, UK, Australia, Canada, Singapore, Germany, New Zealand, Japan, France and South Korea. 
Note 01: Not more than one child of the same parents/guardians will be eligible and to this effect, a selfcertificate will be required from the candidate.
Note 02: The Candidate should make his/her own efforts in seeking admission to an accredited University / Institution Abroad.  
Note 03: The selected candidate has to join the concerned University within one year of communication of selection. On the expiry of this specified period of time, the award will be automatically cancelled and come to an end. No request for an extension of time for availing the award is permissible under the Scheme.
Note 04: The candidate shall not change the course of study for which the scholarship has been sanctioned.  
Note 05: It will be the responsibility of the candidate to obtain the appropriate visa for a country wherein one intends to study further under an award from the Scheme and the Visa issuing authorities may kindly see that only such type of Visa be issued which only permits the candidate to pursue a specified course in abroad and thereafter the candidate returns to India.
Note 06: 33% of the awards shall be earmarked for Women candidates.
Note 07: Ph.D. Courses are also eligible under the scheme.
Note 08: Relaxations of 60% minimum marks in degree/PG is considered only, subject to the candidate getting an adequate score in eligibility test such as GRE/GMAT//IELTS/TOEFL/PTE and getting unconditional admission in the abroad Universities/Institutions in case if the registrations are not up to the expected levels within the Budget allocated and being done only on a case to case basis by the Government. The application process is as follows: Step 01: Notification shall be issued in leading dailies calling for applications and wide publicity will be given on University Campuses and in the ePASS portal in August / September and in January/February of the year.
Step 02: All such students desirous of applying for financial assistance for studies abroad shall apply online from 1st August to 30th September and again from 1st January to 28th /29th February of the year.
Step 03: To avail of the benefits of the scheme, the applicants shall apply online by accessing the website “Telangana ePASS”.
Step 04: Scroll down the homepage and click on “Overseas Scholarship Services”.
Step 05: Select the scheme “Mahatma Jyothiba Phule Overseas Vidya Nidhi for BC and EBC students” and click on ‘Registration’.
Step 06: Fill out the registration form completely and click on ‘submit’.
Note: The applications should be complete in all respects and should be accompanied by all relevant documents. The applications, incomplete in any respect, are liable to be rejected. For more information, please refer to: Guideline: https://goir.telangana.gov.in/pdfshow.aspx Order: https://telanganaepass.cgg.gov.in/downloads/2017BCW_MS22.pdf EPASS Portal: https://telanganaepass.cgg.gov.in/OverseasLinks.do Tags associated with the scheme include: Backward Class, Economically Backward Class, Foreign University, Higher Study, Scholarship, Student, Vidya Nidhi.