The name of this welfare scheme is Continuation of Pension (K.B.O.C.W.W.B). It is also known as COPKBOCWWB. The &quot;Continuation of Pension&#39;&#39; by the BOCW Welfare Board, Department of Labour, Karnataka, is a welfare scheme for the registered workers of the board. This scheme is designed to support registered building and construction workers who have paid their subscription fee for a minimum of three (3) continuous years and remain active in their profession until the age of sixty (60)  can receive a monthly pension. Beneficiaries must not be receiving a similar pension from any other government scheme. The scheme targets beneficiaries such as Individual. It is specifically implemented in Karnataka. Additionally, the nodal department is Labour Department.

The scheme provides the following benefits: Monthly Pension: ₹2,000/to eligible registered workers.

Eligibility criteria include: &gt; For Registration as a Building/ Construction Worker:


  The applicant should be a Building/ Construction Worker (Unorganised Worker).
  The applicant should be a minimum of 18 years of age.
  The applicant should have engaged in building and construction work for at least 90 days in a given year.

&gt; For the Application of the Welfare Scheme:


  The beneficiary should be a registered construction worker Under the Building and Other Construction Workers Welfare Board of Karnataka.
  The worker should have paid subscription fees for at least three (3) continuous years.
  The worker should remain an active construction worker.
  The worker’s age should be below 60 years.
  The worker shall not avail similar benefits under any of the Government Schemes. The application process is as follows: &gt; Registration Process as a Building/ Construction Worker:

Step 1: Visit the official Website of Karnataka Building &amp;amp; Other Construction Workers Welfare Board (KBOCWWB) and click on “Register”.
Step 2: Select “Register as New Construction Worker” then enter your mobile number as per the Aadhaar Registered and verify with the received OTP.
Step 3: From the dashboard, click on “Registration”.
Step 4: Fill in all the mandatory details and upload the required documents. Click on “Final Submit” to complete the registration process.
&gt; Application Process of the Welfare Scheme:

Step 1: Visit the official Website of Karnataka Building &amp;amp; Other Construction Workers Welfare Board (KBOCWWB) and click on “Login”.
Step 2: Enter your registered mobile number and the received OTP.
Step 3: From the dashboard, click on “Schemes” (After the user Registration is approved, the user can access the schemes page).
Step 4: Select the concerned scheme. Fill in all the mandatory details and upload the required documents.
Step 5:  Review the details and check the declaration box. Now click on “Submit” to complete the application process.
&gt; Renewal Process:

Step 1: Visit the official Website of Karnataka Building &amp;amp; Other Construction Workers Welfare Board (KBOCWWB) and click on “Login”.
Step 2: Enter your registered mobile number and the received OTP.
Step 3: From the dashboard, click on “Renewal”. Fill in mandatory details and upload the required documents.
Step 4: Review the details and click on “Submit” to complete the renewal process.
&gt; Note:


  Renewal: Every construction worker must renew their registration with the Karnataka Building and Other Construction Workers Welfare Board every 3 years. If not renewed within this period, a 1year grace period is granted. After that, the registration becomes invalid. 
&gt; Helpdesk:

Karnataka Building And Other Construction Workers Welfare Board,
Address: Karmika Bhavan, Dairy Circle, Bannerghatta Road, BangaloreOffice No: 08029753078
Email: labour.commissioner42@gmail.com
List of District Office.
List of Taluk Offices. For more information, please refer to: Guidelines: https://kbocwwb.karnataka.gov.in/continuePension Guidelines (For Registration): https://karbwwb.karnataka.gov.in/42/schemes/en User Manual: https://kbocwwb.karnataka.gov.in/static/media/user_manual_eng.c0bc6338.pdf Tags associated with the scheme include: Building Worker, Construction Workers, Labour, Pension.