The name of this welfare scheme is Chief Minister’s Paryatan Vikas Yojana. It is also known as CMPVY. The scheme “Chief Minister’s Paryatan Vikas Yojna (CMPVY)” was launched by the Government of Arunachal Pradesh to develop tourism facilities in the state to attract more tourism.
The scheme has three components –
a) Development support to Patisserie and Food courts,
b) Development support for Homestays,
c) Development of adventure sports by financial support in the procurement of equipment.
Objective:

  - To promote tourism in the State and thereby livelihood for the locals. 

Important Features:

  - Patisserie and food courts in popular tourist spots and important towns/ tourist places of Arunachal Pradesh
  - Value addition to Home Stay operators, which include renovation of 2 adequately sized well-furnished rooms with attached toilet with shower, geyser, and western toilet
  - Purchase of various types of adventure tourism equipment such as rafts, kayaks, Quad bikes, lobs, lip lines, Bungee jumps, etc. The scheme targets beneficiaries such as Individual. It is specifically implemented in Arunachal Pradesh. The implementing agency is Department Of Tourism, Arunachal Pradesh. Additionally, the nodal department is Tourism Department.

The scheme provides the following benefits: Direct loan subsidy of ₹00 lakh is provided to open Patisserie.
Homestays and procure equipment for adventure tourism.

Eligibility criteria include: Any Arunachal Pradesh domicile can apply to avail of the benefit of this scheme.
For Homestays: Beneficiaries should be registered with the Department of Tourism.
Those Homestay operators trained with the Department of Tourism will be given priority.
For Cab Service Operators and Patisseries, Food courts: Beneficiaries should be registered as tour operators with the Department of Tourism. The application process is as follows: Step 01: For taking benefit of this scheme, the applicant needs to visit the nearest District Tourism Office, Arunachal Pradesh.
Step 02: Application in the prescribed format may be received from the concerned office.
Step 03: The applicant needs to fill the application form completely and attach all the relevant documents. Thereafter, the applicant may submit the application form to the concerned office.
Step 04: After successful verification, the applicant will be interviewed and assessed by the District Administration (District Tourism Officer) before he/she receives the benefit. For more information, please refer to: Notification: https://arunachaltourism.com/wp-content/uploads/2022/07/CamScanner-06-24-2022-11.24.16-1.pdf Website: https://arunachaltourism.com/advertisement/ Guideline: https://ahvdd.arunachal.gov.in/pdf/eBook/Government%20Scheme%20Handbook.pdf Tags associated with the scheme include: Adventure, Development, Homestays, Tourism, Tourist.