The name of this welfare scheme is Mukhyamantri Anusuchit Jati Evam Anusuchit Janjati Chhatrawas Anudan Yojana. It is also known as MAJEAJCAY. The “Mukhyamantri Anusoochit Jaati Evam Anusoochit Janajati Chhatrawas Anudan Yojana” was launched by the SC and ST Welfare Department, Government of Bihar aims to provide ₹1,000/- per month to the students studying in Scheduled Caste/Scheduled Tribe hostels.  


Under this scheme, the Scheduled Caste and Scheduled Tribe students studying in hostels are given the facility of a cot, mattress, bed-sheet, table and chair for studying, utensils for cooking and kitchen, etc. In this sequence, to increase the facilities being provided to the students and make the students from the weaker sections of society aware of higher education increasing the rate of higher education and fulfilling the hostel-related needs of the students. The scheme targets beneficiaries such as Individual. It is specifically implemented in Bihar. Additionally, the nodal department is SC & ST Welfare Department.

The scheme provides the following benefits: Grant of ₹1,000/per month.

Eligibility criteria include: The student should be a resident of Bihar state.
The student belongs to the Scheduled Caste and Scheduled Tribe. 
The student should be enrolled and reside in hostels following the departmental guidelines and instructions operated by the Scheduled Caste and Scheduled Tribe Welfare Department.
The student should be studying in a recognized course.
The student should be studying in a recognized educational institution. The application process is as follows: Step1: The interested applicant requests a hard copy of the prescribed format of the application form from the Hostel Superintendent or writes an application in plain paper.
Step2: Submit the duly filled and signed application along with the documents to the Hostel Superintendent.
Step3: After receiving the student&#39;s application, the list of students and related information will be uploaded/online on the Scheduled Caste and Scheduled Tribe Welfare Department portal by the Hostel Superintendent. For more information, please refer to: Guidelines: https://state.bihar.gov.in/scstwelfare/cache/43/21-Jul-24/SHOW_DOCS/CHATRAWAS%20ANUDAN%20YOJNA.pdf Tags associated with the scheme include: Grant, Hostel, Scheduled Caste, Scheduled Tribe, Student.