The name of this welfare scheme is Scheme for Celebration of Birth/death Anniversary of Eminent Personalities. It is also known as SCBDAEP. The &quot;Scheme for Celebration of Birth/Death Anniversary of Eminent Personalities&quot; was launched by the Department for the Welfare of SC / ST / OBC / Minorities, Government of NCT of Delhi. The scheme aims to assist in the organization of events for the Birth/Death anniversaries of prominent figures who have significantly contributed to social justice and the upliftment of weaker sections of society.  


The programs that may be organized to celebrate the Birth/Death Anniversary of Dr. B.R. Ambedkar, Sant Ravidas, and Maharishi Balmiki are indicated below as an illustration:

1. Appropriate Cultural Programmed.
1. A conference or symposium on themes like

  - Life &amp; Work of the Great Saint.
  - Contribution of eminent personality to Social Justice.
  - Road map for building a society based on the principles of social justice, equity, equality of opportunity, etc.
  - Other related subjects.

1. A quiz/debate/essay competition etc. on the life and work of Dr. Bhimrao Ambedkar for the promotion of social justice, for its students. The winners to be given cash prize along with a book(s) on Dr. Bhimrao Ambedkar. The scheme targets beneficiaries such as NGO. It is specifically implemented in Delhi. Additionally, the nodal department is Welfare of SC/ST/OBC/Minorities Department.

The scheme provides the following benefits: Assistance for the arrangements of celebrations up to a maximum of ₹50,000/per occasion, for a maximum of two occasions in one year.

Note: Assistance for the celebration of Birth/Death Anniversaries of Dr. B.R. Ambedkar, Sant Ravidas, and Maharishi Balmiki will be provided through empaneled agencies.

Eligibility criteria include: The NGOs should be registered under the Societies Registration Act.
The registered NGOs should have audited accounts. The application process is as follows: Step 1: The interested applicant should visit (during office hours) the Department for the Welfare of SC/ST/OBC and request a hard copy of the prescribed format of the application form from the staff exclusively entrusted to issue and collect filledin applications.
Step 2: In the application form, fill in all the mandatory fields, and attach copies of all the mandatory documents (selfattest, if required).
Step 3: Submit the duly filled and signed application form along with the documents to the Department for the Welfare of SC/ST/OBC.
Step 4: Request a receipt or acknowledgment from the concerned authority to whom the application has been submitted. Ensure that the receipt contains essential details such as the date and time of submission, and a unique identification number (if applicable).


Note1: The application is submitted at least 15 days in advance.
Note2: The recommendation letter is not mandatory during the enforcement of the Model Code of Conduct during elections. For more information, please refer to: Guidelines: https://scstwelfare.delhi.gov.in/sites/default/files/scstwelfare/circulars-orders/scheme_for_eminent.pdf Tags associated with the scheme include: Anniversary, Financial Assistance, Jayantis, NGO.