The name of this welfare scheme is Scheme of Financial Assistance for Publication of Manuscripts/Research Journals. It is also known as SFAPMRJ. The &amp;quot;Scheme of Financial Assistance for Publication of Manuscripts/Research Journals&amp;quot; scheme was launched by the Arts and Culture Department, Puducherry. The scheme aims to provide financial assistance of ₹10,000 for publishing manuscripts/research journals. They are published on cultural subjects such as language, literature, philosophy, religion, history, music, dance, drama, and other fine arts etc. The scheme targets beneficiaries such as Individual. It is specifically implemented in Puducherry. Additionally, the nodal department is Arts and Culture Department, Puducherry.

The scheme provides the following benefits: Financial Assistance of ₹10,000/.

Eligibility criteria include: The applicant&#39;s proposed book or journal for publication must pertain to one or more cultural subjects such as language, literature, philosophy, religion, history, music, dance, drama, and other fine arts.
The applicant should be using language Tamil/Malayalam/Telugu/English/French.
The applicant&#39;s work should be a thesis, dissertation, or original research based on personal study and critical analysis, provided it is not intended for obtaining any degree.
Fictional works are not eligible for financial assistance under this scheme. The application process is as follows: Step 1: The interested applicant should visit (during office hours) the Department of Art and Culture and request the hard copy of the prescribed format of the application form from the staff exclusively entrusted to issue and collect filledin applications.
Step 2: In the application form, fill in all the mandatory fields, paste the passportsized photograph (signed across, if required), and attach copies of all the mandatory documents (selfattest, if required).
Step 3: Submit the duly filled and signed application form along with the documents to the superintendent, Department of Art and Culture,1, Romain Rolland Street, Puducherry.
Step 4: Request a receipt or acknowledgment from the superintendent to whom the application has been submitted. Ensure that the receipt contains essential details such as the date and time of submission, and a unique identification number (if applicable). For more information, please refer to: Citizens Charter: https://art.py.gov.in//sites/default/files/ecit1.pdf Tags associated with the scheme include: Culture, Financial Assistance, Journalist, Publication.