The name of this welfare scheme is Grant of Mahatma Gandhi Memorial Award for Clean Houses. It is also known as GMGMACH. The scheme “Grant of Mahatma Gandhi Memorial Award for Clean Houses” was introduced by the Adi Dravidar Welfare Department, Government of Puducherry. The objective of the scheme is to motivate the Scheduled Caste people to keep their houses neat and tidy. Incentives in the form of household articles worth ₹500/- for each selected beneficiary is being given. The scheme targets beneficiaries such as Family. It is specifically implemented in Puducherry. Additionally, the nodal department is Adi Dravidar Welfare Department, Puducherry.

The scheme provides the following benefits: Incentives worth ₹500/in the form of household articles.

Eligibility criteria include: The applicant should be a citizen of India.
The applicant should belong to the Union Territory of Pondicherry by virtue of birth or continuous residence of not less than 3 years.
The applicant should be from Scheduled Caste. The application process is as follows: Step 1: The interested applicant should visit (during office hours) the Office/ SubOffice of the Adi Dravidar Welfare and Scheduled Tribes Welfare Department, and request the hard copy of the prescribed format of the application form from the staff exclusively entrusted to issue and collect filledin applications.
Step 2: In the application form, fill in all the mandatory fields, paste the passportsized photograph (signed across, if required), and attach copies of all the mandatory documents (selfattest, if required).
Step 3: Submit the duly filled and signed application form along with the documents to the concerned authority.
Step 4: Request a receipt or acknowledgment from the concerned authority to whom the application has been submitted. Ensure that the receipt contains essential details such as the date and time of submission, and a unique identification number (if applicable). For more information, please refer to: Guidelines: https://py.gov.in/sites/default/files/adwgrant-mahatma-gandhi-memorial-award-clean-houses.pdf Citizen's Charter: https://py.gov.in/sites/default/files/citizencharter-adidravidar.pdf Contact Us: https://adwelfare.py.gov.in/contact-us Tags associated with the scheme include: Clean, Grant, House, Sanitation, Waste.