The name of this welfare scheme is Skill Development Training - 90 Days Skill Development Training Programme in Curtain & Garment Stitching . It is also known as SDT-90DSDTPCGS. The &quot;Skill Development Training - 90 Days Skill Development Training Programme in Curtain &amp; Garment Stitching&quot; was launched by the Telangana Building &amp; Other Construction Workers Welfare Board, LET&amp;F (Labour) Department, Telangana. The scheme offers a 90-day non-residential skill development training programme specifically designed for unemployed girls and women who are dependents of registered construction workers. The programme focuses on imparting curtain and garment stitching skills, providing participants with the necessary tools and training to become self-reliant and enhance their employability. The scheme targets beneficiaries such as Individual. It is specifically implemented in Telangana. Additionally, the nodal department is Labour, Employment Training and Factories Department.

The scheme provides the following benefits: > Skill Development: 


Gain handson experience and technical skills in curtain and garment stitching (tailoring).



> Domestic Sewing Machine: 


Each participant receives a domestic sewing machine upon completion of the training, included in the training fee.



> Duration:


The programme lasts 90 days, with a total of 600 hours of training.

Eligibility criteria include: The applicant should be a woman.
The applicant should be a dependent of the registered construction worker.
The applicant&#39;s age should be 18 years or above. 
The applicant must have completed at least the 5th class.
The applicant should have knowledge of Telugu, Hindi, and English language.
The applicant should be any one of the following:



  Unemployed Girls
  Widowed
  Divorced and 
  Deserted Daughters 
  Spouse The application process is as follows: Step1: The interested applicant visits the official website and clicks on &quot;Downloads&quot; at the top of the menu options.
Step2: Now click on the download button corresponding to the scheme name.
Step3: In the application form, fill in all the mandatory fields, and attach copies of all the mandatory documents (selfattest, if required).
Step4: Submit the duly filled and signed application form along with the documents to the concerned officer in the labour department. 
Step5: Request a receipt or acknowledgment from the concerned authority to whom the application has been submitted. Ensure that the receipt contains essential details such as the date and time of submission, and a unique identification number (if applicable). For more information, please refer to: Guidelines: https://tbocwwb.telangana.gov.in/newsite/pdf_files/2016LETF_MS63.pdf Tags associated with the scheme include: Construction Workers, Self-employment, Sewing Machine, Training, Women.