The name of this welfare scheme is Visiting Advanced Joint Research Faculty Scheme. It is also known as VAJRA. “Visiting Advanced Joint Research (VAJRA) Faculty Scheme” was launched by the Department of Science and Technology, Government of India to bring a strong international connection to the R&amp;amp;D ecosystem of India. The scheme offers adjunct/visiting faculty assignments to overseas scientists, faculty members, and R&amp;amp;D professionals including Non-resident Indians (NRI) and Overseas Citizens of India (OCI) to undertake high-quality collaborative research in publicly funded academic and research Institutions of India. VAJRA Faculty will engage in collaborative research in cutting-edge areas of science and technology including interdisciplinary areas of priority such as energy, water, health, security, nutrition, materials and manufacturing, etc. with one or more Indian Collaborators. VAJRA Faculty is expected to co-guide research students and may also be involved in technology development, innovation, start-ups, etc. The Science and Engineering Research Board (SERB), a Statutory body of the Department will implement the Scheme. The scheme targets beneficiaries such as Individual. The implementing agency is Science And Engineering Research Board, Government Of India. Additionally, the nodal ministry is Ministry Of Science And Technology and the nodal department is Department Of Science & Technology.

The scheme provides the following benefits: The residency period of VAJRA Faculty in India would be for a minimum of 1 month and a maximum of 3 months.
   VAJRA Faculty will be provided US$ 15000 in the first month of engagement and US$ 10000 p.m. in the subsequent two months. While no separate support is provided for travel, accommodation, medical/personal insurance, etc. the host institute may consider providing additional support.
   Return visit of Indian faculty to the Institute of VAJRA Faculty: One research visit by the Indian host to the Institute of the VAJRA Faculty for a period not less than a week and not exceeding 30 days will be supported. The board will provide return economy airfare, not exceeding ₹5 lakhs per diem, and accommodation as per the norms of the Board.   Student mobility (Doctoral &amp;amp; Postdoctoral Level: Across labs): Collaborative research visit of not more than 2 students, doctoral, preferably coadvised / postdoctoral level after 2 years of engagement from the research group of Indian host to the Institute of the VAJRA Faculty for a duration of three to six months will be supported. The board will provide a return economy airfare, a onetime contingency grant of ₹60,000/and fellowship equivalent to the norms of the Board.   Research Contingency Grant to the hosting Indian Collaborator: ₹0 lakhs per year of research visit per VAJRA Faculty to the Indian host to meet expenses related to the collaborative research will also be provided.   Support to engage VAJRA Faculty to give lectures in his/her area of expertise in the host Institute: Support to VAJRA Faculty to the tune of ₹0 lakh per year for this activity will be provided.

Eligibility criteria include: The scheme is open to overseas scientists, faculty members, and R&amp;amp;D professionals including Nonresident Indians (NRI) and Overseas Citizens of India (OCI).
   The overseas scientist/faculty should be an active researcher working in a leading academic/research/industrial organization with a proven track record of research and development.
   Indian Collaborator(s) should be a regular faculty/researcher in academic/research institutions.
   Indian Collaborator(s) from the Top 10 Private Institutions as per the NIRF ranking are also eligible to apply if the Institute contributes 50% of the cost. The application process is as follows: Step 01: Application for the VAJRA Faculty Scheme can be submitted throughout the year.
Step 02: The Indian collaborator should identify appropriate overseas faculty/ researcher and jointly frame a research plan.
Step 03: The Lead Indian collaborator should submit the application online at www.serbonline.in.
Step 04: The Indian Collaborator should register in the SERB Online Portal.  click here to register
Step 05: If there are Other Indian Collaborators as part of the proposed work, then it is to be ensured that all the other Indian Collaborator(s) are registered in the SERB online portal and have filled all mandatory fields in the Profile Details section under User Profile.
Step 06: Under &amp;#39;Form Submission&amp;#39; choose Scheme: VAJRA for opening the online submission form.
Step 07: All the details need to be filled in the online submission form.
Step 08: Endorsement certificate from Indian Institution and consent letter from overseas faculty institution for participation as VAJRA Faculty, should be uploaded during the time of submission.
Step 09: On submission of the online application, a link to view the submitted application will be sent to the overseas faculty. On his acceptance, the application would be deemed formally submitted for further consideration.
Step 10: The Committee for evaluating the applications will meet twice a year and make its recommendations. SERB will announce the results subsequently. For more information, please refer to: Official Website: https://www.vajra-india.in/ SERB Website: https://www.serbonline.in/SERB/vajra DST Website: https://dst.gov.in/vajra Scheme Details: https://serb.gov.in/page/research_networking#Visiting%20Advanced%20Joint%20Research%20(VAJRA)%20Faculty%20Scheme Tags associated with the scheme include: Faculty, Joint Research, NRI, OCI, Overseas, SERB, VAJRA, Visiting.