The name of this welfare scheme is Thatched House Repair Grant for Re-thatching & Repairs (Sainik Welfare). It is also known as THRGRR-SW. &quot;Thatched House Repair Grant for Re-thatching &amp; Repairs&quot; is a Welfare Scheme by the Armed Forces Flag Day Fund of the Department of Sainik Welfare, Puducherry. Through this scheme, up to ₹40,000/- is provided to the registered ESM / Widows of ESM / Dependents of ESM every three years, for the re-thatching &amp; repair of their house. The applicant should be receiving a Subsistence Allowance and living in a thatched house. The applications are accepted offline. The scheme targets beneficiaries such as Individual. It is specifically implemented in Puducherry. The implementing agency is Rajya Sainik Board, Puducherry. Additionally, the nodal department is Sainik Welfare Department, Puducherry.

The scheme provides the following benefits: The actual cost of damage or a maximum of ₹40,000/is provided for the rethatching and repair of the house.
The amount, as decided by the Management Committee, is credited to the beneficiary’s Bank Account through RTGS/ NEFT.

Eligibility criteria include: The applicant should be an Exserviceman/Widow of an Exserviceman/Dependent of an Exserviceman.

The applicant should be registered with the Department of Sainik Welfare, Puducherry.

The applicant should be receiving Subsistence Allowance.
The applicant should be living in a thatched house. The application process is as follows: Step 1: The interested applicant should visit (on a working day, and during working hours) the Rajya Sainik Board, Jawan Bhawan, Department of Sainik Welfare, Government of Puducherry, 261, Lawspet Main Road, Pakkamudianpet, Puducherry Road, Lawspet, Puducherry 605013, India, and request a hard copy of the prescribed format of the application form from the concerned authority.
Step 2: In the application form, fill in all the mandatory fields, paste the passportsized photograph (signed across, if required), and attach copies of all the mandatory documents (selfattest, if required).
Step 3: The interested applicant should submit the duly filled and signed application form and the documents to the concerned authority at the Rajya Sainik Board.
Step 4: A receipt of the application will be assigned to the applicant by the concerned authority.


> Queries/Complaints/Suggestions/Grievances

Address: 261, Lawspet Main Road, Pakkamudianpet, Puducherry Road, Lawspet, Puducherry 605013, India
Phone Number: (+91)(0413) 2253107
Email: dirdsw.pon@nic.in
Hours: Monday Friday, 2:30 pm to 5:00 pm For more information, please refer to: Guidelines: https://sainik.py.gov.in/assistance-affd-fund Government Order: https://sainik.py.gov.in/sites/default/files/g.o.ms.22-dated-24-feb-2020.pdf Contact Us: https://sainik.py.gov.in/contact-us Tags associated with the scheme include: Dependent, Ex-Serviceman, House, Repair, Widow.