The name of this welfare scheme is Skill Development Promotion Scheme. It is also known as SDPS. The scheme “Skill Development Promotion Scheme” is a scheme by the Department of Information Technology, Electronics and Communications, Government of Goa, for the Startups of Goa. The scheme is a part of the Start-up Policy 2017. The retail educational institutes that impart programming and technical skills will be encouraged to establish learning centres in Goa. Institutes listed by the start-up promotion cell and providing courses at pre-fixed rates will be provided subsidies among other benefits. The scheme targets beneficiaries such as Business Entity, University / Institution. It is specifically implemented in Goa. The implementing agency is Startup Promotion Cell (SPC). Additionally, the nodal department is Information and Publicity Department.

The scheme provides the following benefits: The retail educational institutes that impart programming and technical skills will be encouraged to establish learning centres in Goa. Institutes listed by the startup promotion cell and providing courses at prefixed rates will be provided following benefits:
        a)    Internet subsidy (up to ₹ 5,00,000 per year) for two years
        b)    Power subsidy (up to ₹ 1,00,000 per year) for two years
        c)    25% capital investments reimbursement up to ₹ 5,00,000 (on all capital procurement for a period of two years)
        d)    10% salary cost subsidy up to ₹ 3,00,000 for a period of two years
The maximum benefits aggregating all the benefits in this scheme should not exceed ₹ 10,00,000 per year.
The benefits of this scheme can only be availed by up to 10 institutes per year offering courses under the technical areas/ sectors outlined in Annexure Under no circumstance shall the benefits under this scheme be considered an entitlement. The SPC shall reserve the sole right to accept or reject applications.
The eligibility and disbursement of incentives shall be reviewed at the end of each year based on the performance of the institute.
The applicant can take the benefit of this scheme only one time in the whole of the policy period for a period of two consecutive years.
The applicant can avail of the benefits of this scheme quarterly/biannually/ annually.
Once the application is approved by the SPC, the approved amount shall be disbursed within 60 days from the date of approval.


> Definitions

For the purpose of this scheme, 
‘capital procurement’ shall mean money spent on the purchase of capital goods such as computer hardware, networking devices, and ICT for the institute.
‘retail educational institute’ shall mean a learning centre located in Goa listed by the SPC as such for the purpose of Goa Startup Policy 

Eligibility criteria include: The applicant should be an educational institute listed by the Startup Promotion Cell (SPC).
The applicant should have a valid Startup Cell Registration Number.
The applicant institute/offered course must have at least one established learning centre in Goa and be recognized by an authorized Government body such as AICTE, UGC, NBA, etc. as applicable.

NOTE: Only expenditures incurred from one year before the notification of the Goa Startup Policy 2017, being within the validity of this policy and paid for digitally would be considered for reimbursement under this scheme. If digital payments are not possible then it shall be up to the decision of SPC as per its due diligence to admit the expenditure.


> Relaxation / Preference / Priority

Preference will be given to institutes with tieups with OEMs. The application process is as follows: Step 1: Visit the Official Website of Goa Startup Mission.
Step 2: Verify your Email ID and Mobile Number using OTP. You will be redirected to the Registration Page.
Step 3: On the Registration/Signup Page, fill in all the mandatory fields of the registration form (Country, Name, Date of Birth, Address, PIN Code, Gender, etc.).
Step 4: Create a Login Name and a strong Password (Password can have special characters like @ # $ % ^ &amp; + =).
Step 5: Carefully read the Declaration and the Terms &amp; Conditions, and tick the checkboxes.
Step 6: Fill in the Captcha Code, and click &quot;Register/Signup&quot;.
Step 7: Login to the website using your Login Name and Password. Fill in the Captcha Code, and click &quot;Login&quot;.
Step 8: Navigate to the online application form for the relevant scheme.
Step 9: In the application form, fill in all the mandatory fields and upload all the mandatory documents (selfattest if required).
Step 10: Submit the application and note the application reference number for application tracking.


OR 


Step 1: Take a print of the proforma of the application form. Fill in all the mandatory fields, and attach copies of all the mandatory documents (selfattest if required).
Step 2: Submit the duly filled and signed application form along with the documents to SPC via Email at spcdit.goa@gov.in


NOTE: The applicant can apply for this scheme at any time of the financial year but only within 6 months of incurring the relevant expenditure.


> Notification

The applications received by the SPC shall be evaluated and approval or rejection shall be notified within 45 days from receipt of the application by the SPC. For more information, please refer to: Guidelines: https://www.startup.goa.gov.in/Incentives/SkillDevelopmentPromotionScheme.pdf Application Form: https://www.goa.gov.in/wp-content/uploads/2018/05/Schemes.pdf Tags associated with the scheme include: Business, Entrepreneurship, Skill, Startup, Subsidy.