The name of this welfare scheme is Mukhyamantri Kanya Vivah Yojana- Madhya Pradesh. It is also known as MMKVYMP. The scheme &amp;quot;Mukhyamantri Kanya Vivah Yojana&amp;quot; was started by the Social Justice and Empowerment Department, Government of Madhya Pradesh in 2006. The objective of this scheme is to provide financial assistance for the mass marriage of girls, widows, and abandoned women from destitute or poor families in the state. The scheme targets beneficiaries such as Individual. It is specifically implemented in Madhya Pradesh. The implementing agency is Social Justice And Empowerment Department, Government Of Madhya Pradesh. Additionally, the nodal department is Department of Social Justice and Empowerment of Persons with Disabilities.

The scheme provides the following benefits: Under this scheme, the following assistance is provided:

  Each eligible bride (including girls, widows, or abandoned women) participating in the mass marriage ceremony will receive a total of ₹49,000/through an Account Payee Cheque, on the day of the mass marriage ceremony.
  The organizing body that conducts the mass marriage ceremony will receive ₹6,000/per beneficiary.

Note: A total of ₹55,000/is provided per beneficiary under the scheme.

Eligibility criteria include: The parents of the bride/groom should be natives of Madhya Pradesh.
   Financial assistance will be provided to girls, widows, and abandoned women from destitute or poor families in the state at the time of their marriage.
   The bride should be at least 18 years old, and the groom should be at least 21 years old.
   The applicant should belong to the General, Other Backward Class, Scheduled Caste, or Scheduled Tribe category.
   There are no income restrictions for receiving assistance under the scheme.
   The bride and groom should participate in the mass marriage ceremony organized on the prescribed dates.
   The benefit of this scheme will not be available for single marriage ceremonies.

Note 1: Abandoned women who have been legally divorced are only eligible under the scheme.
Note 2: If the groom is from outside the state, the bride will still be eligible for the benefits of the scheme. However, if the parents of either the bride/groom are not natives of the state, the benefits under the scheme will not be available.
Note 3: The bride should not have been previously married. This means that the marriage of the bride and groom must take place solely during a mass marriage ceremony organized under the scheme, and they should not have been married through a single or any other mass marriage ceremony before.
Note 4: A mass marriage ceremony will be organized only if applications are received from a minimum of 5 couples. The application process is as follows: &gt; Application Process:

Step 1: The bride and groom participating in the mass marriage ceremony will have to jointly apply in the prescribed form to the concerned body (Municipal Corporation, Municipality, City Council, or District Panchayat) 15 days before the scheduled date of the mass marriage ceremony.
Step 2: The applicant should visit the concerned body and collect the application form which is available free of cost. The application format is attached at Appendix Step 3: Fill out the application form, attach all necessary documents, and submit it to the concerned body under which the applicant wants to participate in the mass marriage ceremony.
&gt; PostApplication Process:

Step 1: The scrutiny committee will review and select applicants for the mass marriage ceremony.
Step 2: Eligibility details of all applications (both eligible and ineligible) will be entered into the marriage portal.
Step 3: The local body must complete this process 7 days before the mass marriage ceremony.
Step 4: The portal will generate acceptance orders for eligible couples and rejection orders for ineligible ones.
Step 5: Eligible applicants will be informed to attend the mass marriage, and ineligible applicants will be notified with reasons.
Step 6: The acceptance orders of eligible couples will be generated by the marriage portal itself.
Note: If the application form of any beneficiary has been rejected under Mukhyamantri Kanya Vivah Yojana, then his/her appeal will be submitted to the concerned SubDivisional Revenue Officer. Every appeal will be resolved within 30 days.
&gt; The following institutions will be authorized to organize the mass marriage ceremony under the scheme:


  Urban areas: Urban body (Municipal Corporation or Municipality or Municipal Council)
  Rural areas: District Panchayat (Mass marriages being conducted by any other institution will not be eligible to get benefits under this scheme.

&gt; Determination of dates and number of mass marriages:


  The dates and number of mass marriages will be determined by the minister incharge of the district. Mass marriage ceremonies can be organized on these dates. Wide publicity of these dates should be ensured so that interested couples can apply on time.
  The above dates will be entered on the marriage portal by the District&amp;#39;s Joint/Deputy Director, Social Justice and Empowerment of Persons with Disabilities Department. For more information, please refer to: Scheme Details: https://cmhelpline.mp.gov.in/KnowYourEntitleDetail.aspx?Schemeid=373 Guidelines: https://socialjustice.mp.gov.in/uploads/files/22-04-2022_CM_Vivah_Scheme_2022_Updated1.pdf Amendment Notification: https://socialjustice.mp.gov.in/uploads/schemes/CM_Kanya_Vivah_Ac_Payee_Cheque.pdf Scheme Details/Notification: https://socialjustice.mp.gov.in/schemes/view/SWhoak9tZGNSMnpISG9jbndQckN4UT09 Tags associated with the scheme include: Abandoned Woman, Destitute, Girl, Vivah, Widow.