The name of this welfare scheme is Mukhyamantri Udiyaman Khiladi Unnayan Yojana. It is also known as MUKUY. Basis the State Government Sports Policy 2021, the Department of Sports, Government of Uttarakhand started a scheme named &amp;quot;Mukhyamantri Udiyaman Khiladi Unnayan Yojana&amp;quot; with the objective to provide financial assistance and to encourage all the budding young children of Uttarakhand. Under this scheme, from all 13 Districts of the state, 150 boys and 150 Girls shall be selected and overall 3900 (boys and girls) in the age group between 8 to 14 years shall receive an incentive amount of ₹1,500/- every month. In this scheme, 25 Boys and 25 Girls shall be selected from each age bracket i.e 08 to 09 years old , 09 to 10 years old, 10 to 11 years old, 11 to 12 years old, 12 to 13 years old, 13 to 14 years old; totaling to 50 children per age group and overall 150 children per district. 01 July is the date on which on and after the age shall be calculated for each child. 
Aim :-

   1. To encourage children to take sports and upgrade their skills.
   1. To improve their performance and achievements in the filed of sports. 

Selection Process :-
All eligible candidates shall be required to qualify various stages of P-SAT (Physical and Sports Aptitude Test) to apply for the schemes. Basis performance in the test, merit list shall be prepared by allocating marks to candidates. The information about the place and dates for the selection process will be provided by the concerned District Sports Officer. Below mentioned physical efficiency will be done for the selection process.

   1. 30 meter flying run.
   1. Standing Broad Jump.
   1. Forward Bend &amp;amp; Reach.
   1. 6  10 Shuttle Run (6X10 Shuttle Run).
   1. Medicine Ball Put.
   1. 600 Meter Run. The scheme targets beneficiaries such as Individual. It is specifically implemented in Uttarakhand. Additionally, the nodal department is Department Of Sports.

The scheme provides the following benefits: Budding players in the age group of 8 to 14 years will be given a scholarship of ₹1,500/every month for one year.
   Total 3,900 students will be selected from the state.
   Those children who come from the poor or weak economic conditions of the state, and who are good at playing will get a chance to move forward under this scheme.

Eligibility criteria include: Only permanent residents of Uttarakhand can apply.
   Players aged between 8 to 14 years will be eligible to apply.
   Both boys and girls who have performed well in the field of sports will be eligible.
   To get the benefits all the applicant students will have to pass the selection process.
   Registration of candidates is mandatory at Nyaya Panchayat or Ward level. The application process is as follows: Applicants have to visit the official website of the Department Of Sports, Government of Uttarakhand.)Select Mukhyamantri Udiyaman Khiladi Unnayan Yojana under Scholarship section.Download the application form.Fill and enclose all the required documents. Submit the application. For more information, please refer to: Guidelines: https://sports.uk.gov.in/files/G._O._08_to_14_year_player.pdf Application Form: https://sports.uk.gov.in/files/form_08_to_14.pdf Press Note: https://sports.uk.gov.in/files/Press_Note_-_08_to_14.pdf Tags associated with the scheme include: Budding Young Sportsperson, Financial Assistance.