The name of this welfare scheme is Merit Cum Means Linked Financial Assistance Scheme. It is also known as MCMLFAS. Detailed 
Delhi Government wants to enhance access to high-quality higher education for meritorious economically disadvantaged sections of society. Many meritorious students from this section find it hard to bear the full tuition fee, though the better off sections of society do not face this difficulty. To ease the burden on such meritorious students, the Delhi Govt. proposes a Merit cum Means Linked Financial Assistance Scheme for providing tuition fee reimbursement under the aegis of Delhi Higher Education Aid Trust, with the aim to enhance greater access to high-quality higher education for meritorious Students from econ0mically disadvantaged sections of the society. Many students from this section who find it hard to bear the full tuition fee will benefit immensely from the Scheme.
&lt;br&gt;

The Scheme is to extend financial assistance to the meritorious and needy students pursuing higher education in the NCT of Delhi. Under this Scheme the Delhi Higher Education Trust through the Directorate of Higher Education (DHE), GNCTD will fully or partially reimburse the tuition fee paid by the students. 
The extent of reimbursement will be 
(i)100% tuition fee of the meritorious students belonging to economically weaker section i.e. wards of parent/s who are beneficiaries and possess relevant cards issued under the National Food Security Security Scheme.
(ii) 50%of the tuition fee to meritorious students having annual family income up to Rs.2.50 Lakh and not covered under the National Food Security Scheme.
(iii) 25% reimbursement of tuition fee to meritorious students having annual income above Rs.2.50 Lakh but below Rs.6 Lakh. It is anticipated that the Scheme will lead to the participation of meritorious economically weaker sections of society in gaining access to quality higher education of which they were deprived till now due to financial constraints. It will also help attract meritorious students to Delhi State Universities. The scheme targets beneficiaries such as Individual. It is specifically implemented in Delhi. Additionally, the nodal department is Higher Education Department.

It falls under the categories: Education & Learning.

Eligibility criteria include: Eligibility 
The eligibility criteria for applying under this scheme shall be as follows:
(1) The student should have been enrolled on an undergraduate programme in any of the Delhi State Public Universities or colleges/ institutes affiliated with Delhi State Public Universities.
(2) The student should fulfil the income/ economic and academic performance criteria as specified for each category mentioned below


Eligibility (Gross Annual Family Income of Student from all Sources)Qualifying Aggregate Percentage (Marks in All Subjects)Percentage of Financial AssistanceCategory 1: Beneficiary under National Food Security Scheme &amp;amp;amp;amp; possess the Card issued under the Scheme60%100%Category 2: Not covered under category 1 but whose family income is up to Rs.50 Lakh p.a.60%50%Category 3: Family income above Rs.50 Lakh p.a.but not exceeding Rs.6 Lakh p.a60%25%

A relaxation of 5% in the qualifying aggregate percentage of marks will be allowed to SC/ST Category students. For more information, please refer to: Official Site: http://higheredn.delhi.gov.in/merit-cum-means-linked-financial-assistance-scheme-pursuing-higher-education-state-universities- Guidelines: http://higheredn.delhi.gov.in/sites/default/files/McM-LFA-Approved-Merit-Cum-Means-Scheme.pdf Official FAQ: http://higheredn.delhi.gov.in/sites/default/files/McM-LFA-FAQs.pdf Tags associated with the scheme include: Delhi, Education, Linked Financial Assistance, Merit Cum Means.