The name of this welfare scheme is Su-Swastha Yojna - Sikkim. It is also known as SU-SWASTHA YOJNA. “Su-Swastha Yojna” is the Employees&amp;#39; Health Services Scheme by the Department of Health &amp;amp; Family Welfare, Government of Sikkim. The scheme is envisioned and launched by the Honourable Chief Minister of Sikkim Shri Prem Singh Tamang. The scheme aims to provide healthcare services to employees of the Government of Sikkim and their dependent family members for a cashless benefit covering hospitalizations across top-tier hospitals in India.
&lt;br&gt;

Vision: “Su-Swastha Yojna” underlines the vision of the Chief Minister of Sikkim to put the healthcare of our employees and their families as the top priority. Today healthcare quality, accessibility, and costs have taken center stage in discussions. Su-Swastha Birtus brings quality healthcare to easy accessibility of its members utilizing technology innovation and good governance practices.
&lt;br&gt;

Mission: Su-Swastha Yojna is on a mission to set an example in delivering comprehensive healthcare coverage by focusing on a combination of excellence of care, the convenience of accessibility, and a people-centric experience in their journey from sickness to health.
&lt;br&gt;

Values: Su-Swastha Yojna runs on values that we believe are foundational to the service we envision providing employees and their families in easing their pain and discomfort when they are in need of healthcare.
&lt;br&gt;

In the first phase of launch in April 2021, the Su-Swastha Yojna aims to cover regular employees in service of the Government of Sikkim and dependent family members up to a maximum of 5 dependents in a scheme that provides 10 lacs of cover to the family per year.
&lt;br&gt;

The scheme renews every year and new benefits are planned to be added as further phases of the Yojna are implemented. The scheme targets beneficiaries such as Individual, Family. It is specifically implemented in Sikkim. The implementing agency is Department Of Health & Family Welfare, Government Of Sikkim. Additionally, the nodal department is Health Care Human Servies & Family Welfare Department.

It falls under the categories: Health & Wellness.

Eligibility criteria include: All employees of the Sikkim government appointed against the regular Post from the date of joining the regular post.
A central government servant or a government servant of any other state while on deputation to the Government of Sikkim.
A maximum of 5 family members can be added to one employee as dependents.
A family member dependent on the employee from the following relationships:
•	Parents of the primary member or spouse (stepparents are excluded) 
•	Legally wedded spouse (husband/ wife) of primary beneficiary member; a legally divorced spouse cannot be added as a dependent. When both spouses are government regular employees they can choose to enroll separately as the primary members of SuSwastha Yojna OR as dependent on the other spouse.
•	Children, biological or legally adopted, of the primary beneficiary member as below:
a.	Unemployed unmarried male child up to the age of 30 years.
b.	Unemployed unmarried female child up to any age.
c.	Unmarried unemployed child suffering from certified mental or certified physical disability preventing gainful employment of either gender up to any age till the tenure of employment of primary beneficiary member.
  Disability means blindness, hearing impairment, locomotor disability, mental retardation, mental illness, or any other illness or disability certificate by the com patent authority or medical board.
•	Unmarried and unemployed biological brother and/or sister age 30 years
•	Unmarried and unemployed biological brother and/or sister suffering from certified mental or certified physical disability preventing gainful employment of up to any age till the tenure of employment of primary beneficiary member.
 
The employee must enroll himself /herself before adding dependents to the scheme.
Note 01: A maximum of five (5) dependents can be added for a primary member or employee to the list of dependents mentioned above; in no case can more than 5 dependents be added to a primary member. However, any combination of family members from the list of eligible dependents above can be used to constitute and enroll 5 dependents in the scheme.
Note 02: In no case can the enrolment/membership for a dependent continue if the primary member is not enrolled in the scheme; if the primary man has exited the scheme due to causes including but not limited to death, retirement, termination, or resignation, the cover of benefit for dependents automatically stops.
Note 03: Primary member can add or remove a dependant anytime during the tenure of the membership without requiring the consent of the dependant for such removal.
Note 04: The responsibility of truth in the declaration of dependent family members is of the employee and action may be taken against the employee if information regarding the dependent is found to be untrue.
Note 05: SuSwastha Yojna is primarily a cashless benefits scheme covering beneficiaries for medical hospitalizations across empanelled hospitals only across India.
Note 06: Cashless benefits cannot be availed if the beneficiary is admitted electively or in a medical emergency in a nonempanelled hospital across India, in or outside the state of Sikkim.

&lt;br&gt; For more information, please refer to: Website: https://suswasthasikkim.com Tags associated with the scheme include: Cashless, Dependent Family Member, Government Employee, Health, Hospital.