The name of this welfare scheme is Goa State Cultural Award for Institution. It is also known as GSCAI. The scheme &quot;Goa State Cultural Award for Institution&quot; by the Directorate of Art and Culture, Government of Goa is designed to recognize, promote and appreciate the contribution of the institution in the field of Art and culture. This will give a tremendous boost to cultural institutions in Goa, which in turn will give encouragement to new talents.


> Objectives


1. To recognize, promote and appreciate the institution par excellence as the best Cultural Institution of Goa. 
1. To give a boost to the cultural institutions, which in turn will also encourage the other institutions in the State to promote and encourage cultural talents towards an extraordinary creative output. 
1. To create and develop a cultural Environment in the state. 
1. To felicitate the institution par excellence for its achievements. The scheme targets beneficiaries such as University / Institution. It is specifically implemented in Goa. Additionally, the nodal department is Art, Culture and Museums Department.

The scheme provides the following benefits: A Memento and a Financial Purse to the extent of ₹ 3,00,

Eligibility criteria include: The applicant should be a Goan institution (or institution working for Goan artists) working in the field of Art and culture. 
The institution should have completed 15 years.
The institution should have given extraordinary contributions to the field of Art and culture.
The institution should have a properly constituted managing body with its powers and duties clearly defined in its constitution.
The institution should have a good reputation in the local community.
The cultural institutions that are financed by the Central Government Corporations, and Municipalities are also eligible.



> Reservation / Preference / Priority

Preference will be given to the institutions involved in Cultural Education i.e. imparting Training in Music, Dance, Drama, Fine Arts etc. The application process is as follows: Step 1: The interested applicant should visit the Directorate Of Art &amp; Culture, Government of Goa, 5th Floor, Shram Shakti Bhavan, Panaji, Patto, Panaji, Goa 403001
Step 2: Take a print of the proforma of the application form of the respective scheme, or request a hard copy from the concerned authority.
Step 3: In the application form, fill in all the mandatory fields, paste the passportsized photograph (signed across), and attach copies of all the mandatory documents (selfattest if required).
Step 4: Submit the duly filled and signed application form along with the documents to the ACOIII, Directorate of Art &amp; Culture, Phone: 08322404606, Email: aco6dac.goa@nic.in.


> Application Deadline

Within 30 days from the date of advertisement in the Newspaper. For more information, please refer to: Citizen's Charter: https://www.goa.gov.in/wp-content/uploads/2022/06/Chitizen-Charter-2022-2023-art-and-culture.pdf Application Form: https://www.goa.gov.in/wp-content/uploads/2022/06/State-Cultural-Institution-Award-Online-Form.pdf Tags associated with the scheme include: Artist, Award, Culture, Financial Assistance, Institution.