The name of this welfare scheme is Prosthetic Aid Scheme. It is also known as PAS. In the &amp;quot;Prosthetic Aid Scheme&amp;quot;, Prosthetic Aids and Artificial Appliances (Tricycles, Wheel Chairs, Crutches, Hearing Aids, and Artificial Limbs, etc) are provided to Persons with Disability (e.g. blind, deaf, orthopedically or physically handicapped) by the Social Welfare Department, thereby enabling them to live a comfortable life. The beneficiary shall approach the concerned District Social Welfare Officer for submission of the application. This is a 100% State Sponsored Scheme, and only the permanent residents of the state of Jammu &amp;amp; Kashmir can apply for this scheme. The scheme targets beneficiaries such as Individual. It is specifically implemented in Jammu and Kashmir. The implementing agency is District Social Welfare Offices (DSWO) Of The Department Of Social Welfare, Union Territory Of Jammu & Kashmir. Additionally, the nodal department is Department Of Social Welfare J and K.

The scheme provides the following benefits: Prosthetic Aids and Artificial Appliances (Tricycles, Wheel Chairs, Crutches, Hearing Aids, Artificial Limbs, etc) are provided.

Eligibility criteria include: The applicant should be a citizen of India.
The applicant should be a domicile / permanent resident of the State/UT of Jammu &amp; Kashmir.
The applicant should be a Person with Disability (PwD) (e.g. blind, deaf, orthopedically or physically handicapped).
The family income of the applicant should be less than ₹ 400/per month.
The applicant should not already be availing the benefits of the scheme. The application process is as follows: Step 1: Visit the District Social Welfare Office, and request a hard copy of the format of the application form for the scheme from the concerned authority.
Step 2: In the application form, fill in all the mandatory fields, paste the passportsized photograph (signed across), and attach all the (selfattested) mandatory documents.
Step 3: Submit the duly filled and signed application form along with the documents to the District Social Welfare Officer.
Step 4: Acquire the receipt/acknowledgment of the successful submission of the application form from the District Social Welfare Office.


> PostApplication Processes:

Step 1: On receipt of the application duly completed by the applicant with regard to the DSWO disability and type of prosthetic aid required shall consolidate the list and forward it to the District Level Sanctioning Committee.
Step 2: The District Level Sanctioning Committee authorizes the District Social Welfare Officer to purchase these aids/fitments from the approved agencies for onward disbursement among the sanctioned beneficiaries.


> Check Application Status:

The District Social Welfare Officer (DSWO) / Deputy Commissioner/ Composite Rehabilitation Center (CRC) can be contacted regarding the application status of the scheme. For more information, please refer to: Guidelines: https://jkdswdj.jk.gov.in/welfareSchemes/provisionOfProstheticAids.pdf Social Welfare Schemes: https://www.jkslsa.gov.in/pdf/sch.pdf Tags associated with the scheme include: Artificial Limb, Persons With Disability, Prosthetic Aid, Social Welfare.