The name of this welfare scheme is ICAR Emeritus Scientist. It is also known as ICAR ES. The ICAR Emeritus Scientist Scheme is a structural method of tapping the Brain and skill bank of the outstanding superannuated professionals of NARS by allowing them to complete the work in hand for its fruitful conclusion, utilize their talent in teaching specialized courses and use their experience in addressing nationally important policy issues. 
Retired scientists may often be in a position to work and teach in economically and ecologically underprivileged regions. Hence their expertise should also be mobilized for launching a movement in science for remedying regional imbalances in agricultural development. 
The Emeritus Scientist scheme aims at:
•	To Utilise the services of outstanding superannuated scientists from NARS by allowing them to complete the nationally important research already underway and also for initiating a new programme in nationally important priority areas.
•	To Use the talent of outstanding retired teachers in teaching specialized courses and developing instructional material, especially multimedia for use in national agricultural education programmes including distance education. 
The benefit of the scheme shall be open only to the scientists of repute of the level of Principal Scientist/Professor and above from the National Agriculture Research System that includes State Agricultural Universities, Deemed Universities, Central Agricultural Universities, Central Universities having agriculture facilities, Centre and State funded institutions/organizations engaged in Agricultural Research, Education, Human Resource Development and Extension. The benefit of the scheme will be available only to complete the work in hand for its fruitful conclusion and it will not be extended for starting altogether a new project. The project proposal shall be of national importance and it is to be given only when other equally competent regular scientists are not available in the institute to carry out the proposed work in the field of agriculture, veterinary science &amp; animal husbandry, fisheries, home science, dairy technology and allied sciences. The scheme targets beneficiaries such as Individual. The implementing agency is Indian Council Of Agricultural Research. Additionally, the nodal ministry is Ministry Of Agriculture and Farmers Welfare and the nodal department is Department of Agriculture Research and Education.

It falls under the categories: Skills & Employment.

Eligibility criteria include: The following criteria will be taken into consideration for the selection of an Emeritus Professor:

The applicant should be an outstanding superannuated teacher/Scientist with a good record of published work and teaching/ training experience of a minimum of 5 years.
The ICAR Emeritus Professor can work under this scheme up to the age of 70 years or up to three years, whichever is earlier.

 

The teacher/Professor who is to retire in the next 12 months time is eligible to apply. The application should be submitted through the Executive Authority where the Emeritus Professor proposes to work in the prescribed Proforma to the Deputy Director General (Education), ICAR. 
The maximum age limit for applying for ICAR Emeritus Professor will be 65 years. Preference will be given to applicants superannuated within one year from the date of notification. The notification for filling up of vacant slots will be issued depending upon the vacancies from time to time. The applications received within the period specified in the circular will only be entertained. For more information, please refer to: Guidelines: https://education.icar.gov.in/pdf/Guidelines-emeitus-scientist-scheme.pdf Tags associated with the scheme include: Emeritus, Retirement, Scientist.