The name of this welfare scheme is Grant of Financial Assistance to the Poor Parents Having Only One Girl Child Who is Studying 8th to 10th Standard. It is also known as GFAPPHOOGCWS81S. The scheme &quot;Grant of Financial Assistance to the Poor Parents Having Only One Girl Child Who is Studying 8th to 10th Standard&quot; is a welfare scheme by the Department of Women and Child Development, Government of Puducherry. This scheme was introduced to promote small family norms, uplift the welfare of girl children, and ease the financial burden on parents during their daughter&#39;s marriage. The scheme provides ₹25,000/- financial assistance for single girl children studying in 8th to 10th standard. The scheme targets beneficiaries such as Individual, Family. It is specifically implemented in Puducherry. Additionally, the nodal department is Women and Child Development Department, Puducherry.

The scheme provides the following benefits: ₹ 25,000/will be deposited in a fixed deposit in the Post Office in the form of a National Savings Certificate in the name of the Girl Child.
The maturity amount will be released when the girl child attains the age of eighteen years.

Eligibility criteria include: The applicant should be a citizen of India.
The applicant should be a native of Puducherry by virtue of birth or continuous residence of not less than five years.
The applicant should have an annual income not exceeding ₹75,000/.
The applicant should have only one living girl child and no other issue. The application process is as follows: Step 1: The interested applicant should visit (during office hours) the Office/ SubOffice of the Department of Women and Child Development, and request the hard copy of the prescribed format of the application form from the staff exclusively entrusted to issue and collect filledin applications.
OR
The interested applicant should take print of the prescribed format of the application form.
Step 2: In the application form, fill in all the mandatory fields, paste the passportsized photograph (signed across, if required), and attach copies of all the mandatory documents (selfattest, if required).
Step 3: Submit the duly filled and signed application form along with the documents to the Deputy Director (Women Development) or the Child Development Project Officer (depending on the location), at least 30 days before the proposed marriage date.
Step 4: Request a receipt or acknowledgment from the concerned authority to whom the application has been submitted. Ensure that the receipt contains essential details such as the date and time of submission, and a unique identification number (if applicable). Step 1: Visit the Official Website of the eDistrict Portal of the Government of Puducherry.
Step 2: At the top right corner of the home page, click &quot;Login&quot;. In the login screen, click &quot;Register a New Membership&quot;.
Step 3: On the Registration Page, fill in all the mandatory fields: Username, Password, Confirm Password, Personal Details (Full Name, First Name, Email Address, Address, Current Address, Gender, Date of Birth, Mobile Number). Agree to the declaration. Fill in the Captcha Code, and click &quot;Signup&quot;.
Step 4: Visit the Official Website of the eDistrict Portal of the Government of Puducherry.
Step 5: At the top right corner of the home page, click &quot;Login&quot;. In the login screen, provide your Username and Password, fill in the Captcha Code, and click &quot;Sign In&quot;.
Step 6: On the next screen, a list of schemes by the Government of Puducherry will be displayed Departmentwise.
Step 7: Click on the scheme you wish to apply for. You will be taken to its online application form.
Step 8: In the application form, fill in all the mandatory fields (marked with a red asterisk) and upload all the mandatory documents (selfattest if required). 
Step 9: Tick the declaration stating &quot;I hereby declare that the abovementioned details are true and correct as per the best of my Knowledge&quot;. Submit the application and note the application number for tracking your application. The application number will also be received on your Registered Mobile Number / Registered Email ID.
Track Your Application here
 Access the User Manual for Online Application here For more information, please refer to: Citizen's Charter: https://wcd.py.gov.in/sites/default/files/citizens-charter-english.pdf RTI Manual: https://py.gov.in/sites/default/files/womenrtimanual.pdf Contact Us: https://wcd.py.gov.in/contact-us Office Locations: https://wcd.py.gov.in/office-locations Grievance Redressal: https://wcd.py.gov.in/ta/central-public-grievance-redress-and-monitoring-system Track Your Application: https://edistrict.py.gov.in/User/TrackApplication.aspx Tags associated with the scheme include: Family, Financial Assistance, Girl Child, Parent, Student.