The name of this welfare scheme is Marriage Assistance Scheme- Gujarat Labour Welfare Board. It is also known as MAS-GLWB. The “Marriage Assistance Scheme” was launched by the Gujarat Labour Welfare Board, Labour, Skill Development &amp;amp; Employment Department, Government of Gujarat. Under the scheme, financial assistance is provided to female workers who are working in a factory/organization in the state of Gujarat after their marriage. The scheme targets beneficiaries such as Individual. It is specifically implemented in Gujarat. The implementing agency is Gujarat Labour Welfare Board. Additionally, the nodal department is Labour and Employment Department.

The scheme provides the following benefits: Under the scheme, female workers will be entitled to receive ₹11,000/after their marriage.

Eligibility criteria include: Only those women workers who are working in the factory/organization in the state of Gujarat and the Labour Welfare Fund of the concerned woman worker is paid by the organization at the office, will be eligible to get the benefit of this scheme.
   The Labour Welfare Fund of the last one year of the concerned woman worker should be mandatorily filled by the Factory/Company/Organization.
   Application should be made within one year from the date of marriage.
   There should be a gap of one year between the date of employment and the date of marriage of the woman worker. The application process is as follows: > Application Process for Scheme Benefit:

Step 01: The applicant may visit the Sanman Portal: https://sanman.gujarat.gov.in/
Step 02: On the home page, under the tab ‘Citizen Login’, click on ‘Please Register Here’.
Step 03: Enter your Aadhaar Card Number, select user type, and then enter your Labour Welfare Fund Account Number.
Step 04: Now, click on ‘Fetch’ &amp;amp; verify the details.
Step 05: Enter user details and Password.
Step 06: After successful registration, the applicants can login through their User ID and Password.
Step 07: Now, select the scheme and read the instructions carefully for the selected scheme.
Step 08: Fill out the application form and upload all the relevant documents.
Step 09: Agree with the Rules &amp;amp; Regulations and submit the application form. A confirmation email with the application Number will be sent on the registered email ID. For more information, please refer to: Official Website: https://glwb.gujarat.gov.in/fsmb-scheme-guj.htm Sanman Portal: https://sanman.gujarat.gov.in/Home/GLWBScheme# Tags associated with the scheme include: Financial Assistance, Industrial Worker, Labour, Marriage, Organized Worker.