The name of this welfare scheme is Women Involvement in Science and Engineering Research. It is also known as WISER. The scheme “Women Involvement in Science and Engineering Research (WISER)” aims to build scientific capacity, retain and promote women researchers in India &amp;amp; Germany by utilising complementary expertise in science, technology, innovation and research partnerships. This scheme is designed for women researchers holding a regular/long-term research position in academia/research institute/industry in India or Germany.
            Indo-German Science &amp;amp; Technology Centre (IGSTC), established by the Department of Science &amp;amp; Technology (DST), Government of India and the Federal Ministry of Education and Research (BMBF), Government of Germany invites applications from women researchers in India/Germany to participate and collaborate in an ongoing R&amp;amp;D&amp;amp;I project without applying for fresh project grant in partnering countries.
&gt; Objective:

This programme intends to:

  - Enhance the representation and progression of women researchers in Science, Technology, Engineering and Mathematics (STEM).
  - Bring gender equity and inclusion in STEM research.
  - Create avenues for networking, interaction and long-term research collaboration.
  - Improve existing projects by adding an additional research component to get new and better results.
  - Promote women to lead consortium-based bilateral projects for IGSTC programmes and other funding schemes.

&gt; Tenure:

The tenure of the grant is for 3 years or till completion of the project whichever is earlier and will cover one visit per year for a short stay up to 1 month. The scheme targets beneficiaries such as Individual. The implementing agency is Indo-German Science & Technology Centre, Established By The Department Of Science & Technology, Government Of India And The Federal Ministry Of Education And Research, Government Of Germany. Additionally, the nodal ministry is Ministry Of Science And Technology and the nodal department is Department Of Science & Technology.

The scheme provides the following benefits: The grant will cover basic project assistance (including research staff for the Indian awardee, consumables, and contingency) for the awardee in the parent country and a onemonth research stay in the host country (single roundtrip airfare, visa fee, medical insurance, per diem for the stay).
&gt; Indian awardee:


   Travel (including visa fee and insurance) approximately ₹1 lakh.
   Project cost up to ₹12 lakhs/year (including research staff, consumables, contingency, and per diem @ €2300/month in Germany).

&gt; German awardee:


   Travel (including visa fee and insurance) approximately €Project cost up to €14500/year (including consumables, contingency, and per diem @ € 2300/month in India).

Eligibility criteria include: The applicant must be working either in India or Germany.
   Through this scheme, women researchers/entrepreneurs holding regular positions in academic/research institutions/industrial research organizations in India/Germany may apply to be a part of an ongoing R&amp;amp;D project of interest with acceptance from the host team.
   The programme is open to all areas of STEM.
   The programme has no agelimit (Preference to Early/Midcareer researchers).

Note 01: The applicant must define her role in the project, and provide details of the objective, execution strategy, and expected outcome.
Note 02: The applicant shall specify the value addition to the project in the host country.
Note 03: Choice and acceptance from the host is the sole responsibility of the applicant. The applicant should ensure an endorsement/consent letter from the host at the time of the application.
Note 04: The applicant shall submit a No Objection Certificate (NOC)/Endorsement letter from the head of the institution (present organization).
Note 05: The awardee shall commence her visit within 12 months from the date of the award letter.
Note 06: The awardee will abide by the conduct, rules &amp;amp; regulations of the host and the host country. IGSTC will not be responsible for the violation of any Rules and regulations by the awardee.
Note 07: The awardee and host must intimate IGSTC through email/letter in case of discontinuation by the awardee.
Note 08: The awardee must recognize and acknowledge IGSTC in all online/print documents, communications, reports, publications, conferences, theses, etc. on work emanating from the grant. The application process is as follows: &gt; Application Process:

Step 01: Applications are accepted throughout the year and eligible candidates can apply online.
Step 02: If you are a new user, click on the ‘Create an Account” link at the portal and register yourself by filling details. Existing users can click on the ‘Login’ button.
Step 03: Enter your email ID and password to apply for the scheme.
Step 04: Fill out the application form completely and submit it.
&gt; Evaluation:

Applications will be evaluated by a Joint Committee based on merit and compliance with the eligibility conditions. Evaluation will be based on the credentials of the applicant, relevance to STEM, scope, feasibility, content, and quality of the proposed plan, expected outcome, and future potential. The decision of the Committee will be considered as final and binding.
&gt; Contact:

For queries
Phone: +9101126543500
Email: wiser@igstc.org
Mailing Address:
IndoGerman Science &amp;amp; Technology Centre
Ground Floor, Block – II, Technology Bhavan,
New Mehrauli Road, New Delhi – 110016, India For more information, please refer to: Guideline: https://www.igstc.org/home/wiser_basic_guidelines Official Website: https://www.igstc.org/home/wiser Application Link: https://indo-germansciencetechnologycentre.my.salesforce-sites.com/ApplicantDashboard?campaign=Landing_Page_Wiser Tags associated with the scheme include: Germany, IGSTC, STEM, WISER, Woman.