The name of this welfare scheme is Laxman Award / Rani Laxmi Bai Award Scheme- Differently-abled and Posthumously. It is also known as LARLBASDAAP. The scheme “Laxman Award/Rani Laxmi Bai Award” was launched by the Department of Sports, Government of Uttar Pradesh the sportspersons will be honoured by the state government with the Lakshman award for male sportsperson and Rani Lakshmi Bai award for a female sportsperson in 31 sports disciplines. The Laxman/Rani Laxmi Bai award will be given to differently-abled players (General Category and Veteran Category) and the Laxman Award, the highest sports award of the state will be given posthumously to Shahid. The scheme targets beneficiaries such as Individual. It is specifically implemented in Uttar Pradesh. Additionally, the nodal department is Sports Department, Uttar Pradesh.

The scheme provides the following benefits: This award recognizes sports personalities with a Citation, a Bronze statue of either Laxman or Rani Laxmi Bai, a Scroll, and a cash prize of ₹3,11,000/.

Eligibility criteria include: The player must be a bonafide native of Uttar Pradesh.
The sportspersons for at least three consecutive times for the year 202021 (year 201819, 201920 &amp; 202021) must have been a member of the state senior team for the year 202122 (201920, 202021 &amp; 202122) participated in the National Games/National Senior Championship and also the medal earned by him in the year for which the award is recommended.
If a player has participated in the National Senior Championship and he/she will participate in the international competitions mentioned in the government order such as the Olympic Games, World Championship/World Cup (held at an interval of 04 years) Asian Games, Commonwealth Games, Asian Championship and Commonwealth Championship (held 01 time in 04 years), SAF Games If he participates, will also be considered eligible. 
The player will have to give an affidavit along with his application that he has never been a participant in the consumption of drugs in any competition/championship or sports event nor has he been found guilty in this case.
The applicant shall also submit an oath that he has not been found guilty in any suit by the Hon&#39;ble Court nor has he been found guilty in connection with sexual harassment.
The players who have the above eligibility will be given the Laxman Award to the male player and Rani Laxmi Bai Award to women players included in 31 sports (Swimming, Archery, Athletics, Badminton, Basketball, Boxing, Canoeing &amp; Kayaking, Cycling, Horse Riding, Fencing, Football, Gymnastics, Handball, Hockey, Judo, Kabaddi, Kho Kho, Rowing, Shooting, Table Tennis, Lan Tennis, Volleyball, Weightlifting/Best physics, Wrestling, Taekwondo, Yachting, Golf, Cricket, Soft Tennis, Karate and Wushu) by conferring Lakshman/Rani Lakshmi Bai Award to male/female sportsperson who bring laurels to the state and the country by achieving significant achievements in the respective sports.
One person will be rewarded only once.
The award can also be given posthumously.
The Government may cancel the name of any person from the list of awardee sportspersons and in that direction such person shall be required to return the statue and inscription given to him. The cancellation will thus be final and no appeal can be made against it.
Any form of conveying ( pleading ) in relation to a recommendation will disqualify that entry.
The players only participating in National Senior Championships/National Games will not be considered eligible for the award.
The Laxman/Rani Lakshmi Bai Award for Veteran category sportsperson age should be 40 years and above. The eligibility will be valid if the player is 40 years of age or above on April 1 of the year for which the application is being made in the veteran category.
In the Veteran category, such veteran female / male player of any two of the abovedesignated sports can be awarded the Lakshman / Rani Laxmibai Award for bringing glory to the state and the country by achieving significant achievements in the National Championship / International Competitions (National Championship / International Competitions for points) in the respective sport. The application process is as follows: Step1: The interested applicant should take the prescribed format of the application form.
Step2: In the application form, fill in all the mandatory fields, paste the passportsized photograph (signed across, if required), and attach copies of all the mandatory documents (selfattest, if required).
Step3: Submit the duly filled and signed application form along with the documents to the respective sports officer of the concerned district.
Step4: Request a receipt or acknowledgment from the concerned authority to whom the application has been submitted. Ensure that the receipt contains essential details such as the date and time of submission, and a unique identification number (if applicable). For more information, please refer to: Guidelines: https://upsports.gov.in/site/writereaddata/UploadNews/pdf/C_202212151132575289.pdf Official Website: https://upsports.gov.in/pages/en/enmenu/e-citizen/awards/en-laxman-award Tags associated with the scheme include: Award, Differently-abled, Posthumously, Sports, Sportsperson.