The name of this welfare scheme is Seed Capital Scheme. It is also known as SCS-GOA. The scheme “Seed Capital Scheme” is a scheme by the Department of Information Technology, Electronics and Communications, Government of Goa, for the Startups of Goa. Through this scheme, startups with a promising idea can get a one-time grant of up to ₹ 10,00,000. The scheme targets beneficiaries such as Business Entity. It is specifically implemented in Goa. The implementing agency is Startup Promotion Cell (SPC). Additionally, the nodal department is Information and Publicity Department.

The scheme provides the following benefits: Startups with a promising idea can get a onetime grant of up to ₹ 10,00,000, as determined by the Startup Promotion Cell (SPC).
This incentive can be availed by 100 startups each year which will be selected by the SPC as per its due diligence and guidelines.

NOTE: Under no circumstance shall the benefits under this scheme be considered an entitlement. The SPC shall reserve the sole right to accept or reject applications.

Eligibility criteria include: All the Startups certified by the Startup Promotion Cell (SPC) having a valid startup certificate number are eligible. The application process is as follows: Step 1: Visit the Official Website of Goa Startup Mission.
Step 2: Verify your Email ID and Mobile Number using OTP. You will be redirected to the Registration Page.
Step 3: On the Registration/Signup Page, fill in all the mandatory fields of the registration form (Country, Name, Date of Birth, Address, PIN Code, Gender, etc.).
Step 4: Create a Login Name and a strong Password (Password can have special characters like @ # $ % ^ &amp; + =).
Step 5: Carefully read the Declaration and the Terms &amp; Conditions, and tick the checkboxes.
Step 6: Fill in the Captcha Code, and click &quot;Register/Signup&quot;.
Step 7: Login to the website using your Login Name and Password. Fill in the Captcha Code, and click &quot;Login&quot;.
Step 8: Navigate to the online application form for the relevant scheme.
Step 9: In the application form, fill in all the mandatory fields and upload all the mandatory documents (selfattest if required).
Step 10: Submit the application and note the application reference number for application tracking.


OR 


Step 1: Take a print of the proforma of the application form. Fill in all the mandatory fields, and attach copies of all the mandatory documents (selfattest if required).
Step 2: Submit the duly filled and signed application form along with the documents to SPC via Email at spcdit.goa@gov.in


NOTE: The applicant can apply for this scheme at any time of the financial year.


> Evaluation Process

Step 1: On receipt of the complete application, the SPC shall inspect and verify the contents of the application. Based on the received documents, SPC will scrutinize and perform necessary due diligence on the expenses incurred by the applicant.
Step 2: The SPC shall recommend the application for the sanction of reimbursement of the costs incurred towards filing or grant of IP as the case may be. 


> Notification

The applications received by the SPC shall be evaluated and approval or rejection shall be notified within 45 days from receipt of the application by the SPC. For more information, please refer to: Startup Goa Schemes: https://www.goa.gov.in/wp-content/uploads/2018/05/Schemes.pdf Guidelines: https://startup.goa.gov.in/Incentives/SeedCapitalScheme.pdf Startup Goa Website: https://www.startup.goa.gov.in/StartupIncentives#GrantforIncubationCenterswithinEducationalInstitutesScheme Contact Us: https://www.startup.goa.gov.in/ContactUs Tags associated with the scheme include: Business, Entrepreneur, Seed Capital, Startup.