The name of this welfare scheme is Financial Assistance Under The National Fund For Persons With Disabilities. It is also known as FANF-PWD. A scheme by DoEPwDs for providing financial assistance to the Persons with Disabilities (PwDs) in support of various livelihood activities. The objective of these guidelines is to provide a framework to support financial assistance under the Fund for certain core areas relevant for empowerment of persons with disabilities which are not covered under the budgetary support programme of the Government.


The scheme aims at supporting persons with benchmark disabilities who have excelled in sports / fine-arts / music / dance / film / theatre / literature at the State level to participate in the National and International events. It also provides financial assistance for organising exhibition/ workshops at National/Regional/State level to showcase the products including paintings, handicrafts etc made by persons with disabilities. The scheme targets beneficiaries such as Individual. Additionally, the nodal ministry is Ministry Of Social Justice and Empowerment and the nodal department is Department Of Empowerment Of Persons With Disabilities.

It falls under the categories: Skills & Employment, Social welfare & Empowerment.

Eligibility criteria include: For Component 1: Exhibitions/workshops to showcase the products including paintings, handicraft etc made by the PwDs.

The organization must be one of the following A Government organization; An organization registered under Societies Act; An organization registered under Companies Act; An organization registered under Trust Act.
The organization must have been registered for a period of three years or more.
The organization must have experience of at least 2 years in organizing exhibition/workshops in marketing products/paintings.



Component 2: Support persons with benchmark disabilities who have excelled in sports / finearts / music / dance / film / theatre / literature at the State level to participate in the National and International events.

The applicant must be a Person with Disability.
The percentage of disability must be 40% or more.
The Total Annual Income of Family (from all sources) of the applicant must not exceed ₹ 00 Lakh per Annum (if participating in National Events and National IT Challenge); ₹ 00 Lakh per Annum (if participating in International Events).
The applicant must have either won medals in sporting events or graded as outstanding / promising artist (as per the instructions of Ministry of Culture) during the last three years.
The applicant must NOT have participated in a similar event before.



Component 3: Support certain exclusive needs of persons with high support needs as recommended by the Assessment Boards on specific recommendation by the States on a case to case basis.

The applicant must have high support needs as recommended by the Assessment Board constituted by the States/UTs who have approached the States and the States could not provide such assistance from their Fund and has recommended for consideration under the Fund.
The annual family income of the applicant must not be more than Rs 3 lakh or as may be specified by the Governing Body. For more information, please refer to: Guidelines: https://disabilityaffairs.gov.in/upload/uploadfiles/files/FinalGuidelinesSchemesNF.pdf Tags associated with the scheme include: Differently Abled, Disability, Empowerment, Financial Assistance, PwD.