The name of this welfare scheme is Junior Merit (Class - 11 To 12). It is also known as JMS-11&12. The Government of Odisha in School &amp;amp; Mass Education Department is awarding &amp;quot;Junior Merit Scholarship&amp;quot; under the Scheme &amp;#39;e-medhabruti’ out of the State budget to provide financial assistance to the meritorious Higher Secondary School students of Odisha from families whose parental income does not exceed 6.00 lakhs to meet a part of their educational expenses while pursuing their higher studies.
                   The scholarship is awarded to students pursuing Class XI &amp;amp; XII in the Higher Secondary Schools of the State.
Merit Criteria For Selection: The following factors will be taken into consideration:

-   Fulfillment of eligibility conditions as given in the scheme.
- Online authentication/validation of student records by the Principal of the concerned Higher Secondary School/Institute.
-   Final Merit/Selection lists of the students will be drawn in terms of the percentage of marks obtained in the HSC examination from among the validated students in the merit, proportionately based on the data. The mode of selection for scholarship shall be made through descending order of merit till it reaches the eligible quota of scholarship. For example, a student who has secured 92% of mark in the last examination shall come first then the one who has secured 91% mark, and so on.
-  In case of a tie in the percentage of marks under a particular type of scholarship and some are to be left out due to exceeding the maximum quota of scholarship, then the parental income ceiling will be considered i.e. the student with a lower parental income ceiling will get preference.
-  The CBSE/ICSE grading system in the form of CGPA i.e. Grade points shall be converted to the percentage by multiplying with 9.5 formula percentage (%)	= CGPA x 9.5.

Procedure for Disbursement:
           The scholarship would be sanctioned subject to fulfillment of the prescribed eligibility criteria by the students and validation/authentication by the Principals of the concerned Higher Secondary Schools/ Institutes in online mode only. The scholarship will be paid to the selected students by the Directorate of Higher Secondary Education through DBT (Direct Benefit Transfer) mode only. It will be transferred to the Bank account of the beneficiaries.
Duration of Scholarship and its Renewal:
            A student will be eligible for the scholarship for the total duration of the course (Class XI to XII). Scholarship awarded to any student under State Scholarship Portal is automatically renewable, subject to the student continuing in Class XII (2nd Year) and online validation authentication done by the institute.
Cancellation of Scholarship: The scholarship sanctioned is liable to be cancelled on the following occasions.
1.	If the student is found to have obtained a scholarship by false statements/ fabricated documents.
2.	If the student discontinues his/her studies, the scholarship shall be stopped from the subsequent year. The scheme targets beneficiaries such as Individual. It is specifically implemented in Odisha. The implementing agency is School & Mass Education Department, Government Of Odisha. Additionally, the nodal department is School and Mass Education Department.

It falls under the categories: Education & Learning.

Eligibility criteria include: The student must be a permanent resident of Odisha State.
The Student must have passed HSC with 60% or more marks from an institution recognized by BSE Odisha, CBSE, ICSE, or Equivalent Boards, and pursuing regular Class XI courses of 10+The income of the parents of the students from all sources should not exceed ₹00 lakh per annum.
Students shall apply for Junior Merit Scholarship in the 1st year of the course (Class XI).
The students belong to General, SC, ST, OBC/SEBC &amp; EBC categories may eligible to apply. For more information, please refer to: Guideline: https://scholarship.odisha.gov.in/website/scholarship-details Tags associated with the scheme include: Class XI, Class XII, E-medhabruti, Scholarship, Students.