The name of this welfare scheme is Mukhyamantri Chiranjeevi Swasthya Beema Yojana. It is also known as MCSBY. The Government of Rajasthan has always been in the forefront in making various innovations to provide health services to the citizens of the state. Rajasthan has also successfully operated free medicines and free tests in the state in the past, due to which the general public is getting the benefit of free medicines and tests in the government hospitals of the state.
This scheme has been brought with the commitment of providing good health to all the citizens of the state by freeing them from the huge expenditure on medical treatment so that there is no compulsion of money in the treatment of suffering and serious diseases. The scheme targets beneficiaries such as Individual. It is specifically implemented in Rajasthan. Additionally, the nodal department is Medical, Health and Family Welfare Department.

The scheme provides the following benefits: Cashless treatment facility up to Rs. 25,00,000/will be provided to each family of Rajasthan.
National Food Security Act, the insurance premium of families eligible for SocioEconomic Census, small and marginal farmers and contract workers will be borne by the state government.
Other families will have to pay a premium of Rs. 850/per year.

Eligibility criteria include: Under the scheme, eligible families have been divided into two categoriesCategory receiving free benefits:100 percent of the premium of the eligible families of such category determined by the state government is paid by the government. Presently eligible families under Food Security Act, eligible families of SocioEconomic Census (SECC) 2011, contract workers working in state government departments/boards/corporations/government companies, small marginal farmers and those who received Covid19 exgratia last year destitute and helpless families are included in the free category.   Category receiving benefits by paying Rs.850/per family per year:The families of the state who do not come under the category of free eligible families and are not government employees/pensioners and are not taking benefits under the Medical Attendance Rules They can avail the benefits of the scheme by paying 50% of the fixed premium Rs. 850/per family per year. The remaining 50 percent of the premium will be borne by the government.   All EWS families are also proposed to be given the benefit of Chiranjeevi Yojana free of cost. The application process is as follows: The process for registering category wise is as follows Registration process for free benefit categoryThe eligible families under the Food Security Act and the eligible families of the SocioEconomic Census 2011 are already benefited under the scheme. Hence they do not require registration.
It will be necessary for the beneficiary to register on the registration portal or beneficiaries can register online through their SSO ID or by visiting E Mitra Kendra.It is necessary for the beneficiary to have Jan Aadhar card / Jan Aadhar card number / Jan Aadhar card registration receipt number and Aadhar card number.
OTP on the mobile number registered in the Aadhaar card of the applicant before registration. 
The application for registration in the scheme of contract workers will be verified online by the nodal officer of the concerned department and will be updated regularly.
Small and marginal farmers who are not linked with Jan Aadhaar card, they will be able to get the seeding of land holding done in Jan Aadhaar card as per the prescribed procedure on Jan Aadhaar portal through EMitra. After seeding, the family can be registered on the above mentioned registration portal of the scheme itself through online/emitra.
After successful registration, the beneficiary will be able to print the policy document.



Category receiving benefits by paying Rs.850/per family per year:It will be necessary for the beneficiary to register himself online portal.These beneficiaries will have to pay Rs. 850/per family per year as premium amount to the concerned E Mitra center or through digital payment mode. 
After successful registration, the beneficiary will be able to print the policy document.
The stepwise detailed process of registration under the scheme by eMitra or by yourself is available on the scheme&#39;s website https://chiranjeevi.rajasthan.gov.in/. For more information, please refer to: Detail: https://schemes.rajasthan.gov.in/scheme/detail/775 Official Site: https://chiranjeevi.rajasthan.gov.in/#/home Registration Process: https://chiranjeevi.rajasthan.gov.in/#/chiranjeevi/scheme-registration-process Tags associated with the scheme include: Family Welfare, Financial Assistance, Health Insurance.