The name of this welfare scheme is Scheme of Conferring ‘Kalaichemmal’ Awards. It is also known as SOCKA. The &quot;Scheme of Conferring Kalaichemmal Awards&quot; was launched by the Art and Culture Department, Tamil Nadu. The scheme aims to encourage eminent artists in the field of paintings and sculptures in recognition of their meritorious service in the fields of Traditional Art and Contemporary Art. The Kalaichemmal awardees are given a citation and a cash award of ₹1,00,000/-. The exhibitions are conducted by Oviya Nunkalai Kuzhu at the state level and creations works will be on display for public view in the exhibition. The scheme targets beneficiaries such as Artists. It is specifically implemented in Tamil Nadu. Additionally, the nodal department is Art and Culture Department.

The scheme provides the following benefits: Financial Assistance of ₹1,00,000/.
Copper Citation Plaque.

Eligibility criteria include: The applicant should be an eminent artist. 
The applicant should be a domicile of Tamil Nadu or should be a resident of the state for at least five years.
The eminent artist should have outstanding records of achievement in the field of Contemporary or Traditional art.
The eminent artist should have continuous involvement in their fields.
The eminent artist should have participated in art Exhibitions conducted on behalf of the Government or in the major exhibitions of Art conducted by others.
The eminent artist should receive awards at the Nationallevel or Statelevel art Exhibitions. The application process is as follows: Step 1: The interested applicant should visit (during office hours) the office of the Oviya Nunkalai Kuzhu and request the hard copy of the prescribed format of the application form from the staff exclusively entrusted to issue and collect filledin applications.
Step 2: In the application form, fill in all the mandatory fields, and attach copies of all the mandatory documents (selfattest, if required).
Step 3: Submit the duly filled and signed application form along with the documents to the Member Secretary, Tamil Nadu Oviya Nunkalai Kuzhu, Directorate of Art and Culture, Dr. D.G.S. Dinakaran Road, (Greenways Road) Chennai 600 Telephone: 24936136 
Step 4: Request a receipt or acknowledgement from the concerned authority to whom the application has been submitted. Ensure that the receipt contains essential details such as the date and time of submission, and a unique identification number (if applicable). For more information, please refer to: Guidelines: https://www.tn.gov.in/rti/proactive/inftour/handbook_artculture.pdf Revised Rate: https://artandculture.tn.gov.in/oviya-nunkalai-kuzhu-schemes Tags associated with the scheme include: Artist, Award, Exhibition, Financial Assistance.