The name of this welfare scheme is Indira Mahila Shakti Prashikshan Evam Kaushal Sanvardhan Yojna -RS-CIT. It is also known as IMSPEKSYRC. Indira Mahila Shakti Prashikshan Evam Kaushal Sanvardhan Yojna Started on 20-12-2020 under the Women and Child Development Department Rajasthan State Government is to make the girls and women of the state empower in the field of computers by providing free computer courses to them. As we all know, in the present times, the use of computers is increasing rapidly. In most of the departments, all the work in government and private companies is being done digitally. 
In such a situation, this decision of the  Rajasthan government is very important for the girls and women of the state. According to this scheme, women get computer knowledge for free. By doing this, they can become self-reliant and empowered, thus their future will also be bright, this has been the main objective of the Rajasthan Government under the Indira Mahila Shakti Prashikshan Kaushal Samvardhan Yojana.


&gt; Out of the allotted seats, Scheduled Caste candidates will be selected on 18% seats and Scheduled Tribe candidates will be selected on 14% seats. In case of non-availability in the concerned category, it can be filled by others. The scheme targets beneficiaries such as Individual. It is specifically implemented in Rajasthan. Additionally, the nodal department is Women and Child Development Department.

The scheme provides the following benefits: > Free basic computer training for women and girls, general information about MS Word, MS Excel, MS PowerPoint, email, etc. is given. Training will be given through RKCL ( Rajasthan Knowledge Corporation Limited).

Eligibility criteria include: The applicant is a native citizen of Rajasthan.
   Only women of the state will be considered eligible for the scheme.
   Only girls and women between the ages of 16 years to 40 years will be considered eligible for the scheme.
   Widow/divorced/abandoned women suffering from violence be given priority.
   The applicant trainees who have passed class 10th from a government school and are graduates.
   The applicant  Anganwadi worker must be a Graduate. The application process is as follows: > Registration 

Step1: Applicants have to visit the official portal.  
Step2: Now enter your Mobile number and enter the Code.
Step3: Click send OTP, and Enter OTP to confirm.
Step4: Now you will come to a new page, and read all the instructions before processing.
Step5: Now &quot;Click here to apply online for RSCIT Course&quot;.
Step6: Enter your details like
           District .
           Tehsil.
           Preference 1 or Your Name.
           Father Name .
           Upload required documents etc.
Step7: After uploading all your important information and documents, click on submit
Step8: After applying, an application ID will be received on your mobile or email.


> Login

Step1: Applicants have to visit the official portal.  
Step2: Now Click on Login 
Step3: Now enter your application ID
            Application Name
            Father Name 
            Date of Birth
Step4: Click on login. For more information, please refer to: Guidelines: https://jankalyanfile.rajasthan.gov.in//Content/UploadFolder/Scheme/W_CD/RSCIT/DOC_696_6e94af70-f6f5-4882-bcee-af379e75a7ac.pdf Scheme Details: https://schemes.rajasthan.gov.in/scheme/detail/696 Registration: https://sso.rajasthan.gov.in/register Tags associated with the scheme include: Computer, Education, Empowered, Training.