The name of this welfare scheme is Gatidhara Scheme. It is also known as GS-WEST BENGAL. The scheme “Gatidhara Scheme” was launched by the Transport Department, Government of West Bengal in August 2014 for employment of registered unemployed youth of the State in the transport sector. The Gatidhara scheme was outlined by the Finance Minister in the budget in February. Families with a monthly income of ₹25000/- or less would qualify for financial support under the scheme. The transport department will interview applicants and draw up a list of eligible candidates. The labor department would provide the money, but the scheme would be implemented by the transport department. The objective of the scheme is to generate self-employment in the Urban and Rural areas of the state through the promotion of transport services. The scheme targets beneficiaries such as Individual. It is specifically implemented in West Bengal. The implementing agency is West Bengal Transport Infrastructure Development Corporation Limited. Additionally, the nodal department is Transport Department.

The scheme provides the following benefits: Under the scheme, the subsidy @ 30% of the exshowroom price of the vehicle subject to a maximum of ₹1,00,000/will be provided to the beneficiary for purchasing any commercial vehicle.

Eligibility criteria include: The applicant should be a permanent resident of West Bengal.
The applicant should be enrolled in the Employment Bank of Labour Department, GOWB.
The age of the applicant should be between 25 years to 45 years (Relaxation 5 years for SC/ST &amp; 3 years for OBC).
The family income of the applicant should be less than ₹25000/per month.
More than one member of the same family is not eligible. The application process is as follows: Registration Process in Employment Bank:
Step 01: The applicant should be registered in the Employment Bank of the Labour Department.
Step 02: For registration, the applicants need to visit the official website of the Employment Bank: https://employmentbankwb.gov.in/index.php
Step 03: Click on “New Enrolment Job Seeker” &amp;amp; accept the terms &amp;amp; conditions and then continue.
Step 04: Fill in all the mandatory details and click on the ‘submit’ button.
Application Process:
Step 01:  Applicant should get his application with all requisite documents processed by the dealer of his choice.
Step 02: Select a financier for the loan required for purchasing the vehicle.
Step 03: The vehicle is to be registered within one month of receipt of the offer letter for permit and subsidy under the scheme.
Note: Vehicle dealers are authorized facilitators for the “Gatidhara Scheme”. For more information, please refer to: Guideline: https://transport.wb.gov.in/wp-content/uploads/2016/12/GATIDHARA-SCHEME.pdf Official Website: https://wb.gov.in/government-schemes-details-gatidhara.aspx Tags associated with the scheme include: Commercial Vehicle, Subsidy, Transport Service, Unemployed, Youth.