The name of this welfare scheme is Prime Minister's Scholarship Scheme for the Wards/Widows of Central Police Force Personnel. It is also known as PMSSW/WCPFP. The scheme “Prime Minister’s Scholarship Scheme for the Wards/Widows of Central Police Force Personnel” was introduced by the Ministry of Home Affairs, Government of India in the Academic year 2006-07 to encourage higher technical and professional education for the wards of widows and ex-CPFs personnel. Service conditions of Central Police Forces (CPFs) Personnel are extremely exacting, tough, rigorous, and peculiar to the Services. The service condition often keeps these personnel away from family for long spells. This leads to neglect of family matters including the education of children.
         Prime Minister has announced 5000 scholarships for the wards of ex-servicemen/widows of army personnel as well as para-military forces including the  Railway Protection Force for pursuing advanced education in the field of Medical Engineering/IT and other technical subjects which would be funded out of the interest income generated out of National Defence Fund. Out of the total 5000 scholarships, 1000 scholarships have been allocated to the  Ministry of Home Affairs and Railways. On the basis of the strength of the forces, it has been decided that 910 scholarships for CPFs controlled by MHA and 90 for the Railways Protection Force controlled by the  Ministry of Railways. The scheme targets beneficiaries such as Individual. The implementing agency is Welfare And Rehabilitation Board, CPFs. Additionally, the nodal ministry is Ministry Of Home Affairs.

The scheme provides the following benefits: > Amount of Scholarship:

₹1250/per month for boys
₹1500/per month for girls
> Duration of the Scholarship:

Two to five years as approved by the concerned regulatory body for the programme.

Eligibility criteria include: Persons eligible for the scholarship:
(a) Wards and widows of CPFs personnel died in harness.
(b) Wards of exCPFs personnel disabled while on duty.
(c) Wards of exCPFs personnel in receipt of Gallantry Awards.
(d) Wards &amp;amp; widows of ExCPFs/inservice personnel (Below Officer Rank i.e. up to the rank of Subedar Major /Inspector only). 
Order of preference: If the number of applications for scholarship exceeds the approved number of scholarships, the order of preference for allotment of scholarships will be as under:i)CategoryAWards/Widows of CPFs personnel killed in action.ii)CategoryBWards of exCPFs personnel disabled in action.iii)CategoryCWards of exCPFs personnel in receipt of Gallantry Awards iv)CategoryDWards/Widows of CPFs personnel who died in harnessv)CategoryEWards of exCPFs personnel disabled while in service with disability attributable to Govt. Service.vi)CategoryFWards of exCPFs personnel (PBOR)vii)CategoryGWards of inservice personnel (PBOR) subject to availability of scholarship on a merit basis.Courses eligible for the Scholarship:
First professional degree programme in engineering, medicine, dental, veterinary, MBA, MCA, etc. duly recognized by the respective government regulatory bodies, such as All India Council for Technical Education, Medical Council of India, etc.
Academic requirement:
At least 60% marks at the 10+2 level for the initial sanction. For renewal in subsequent years, 50% marks each year is mandatory.
Note 01: The scheme is open for widows and unmarried wards of CPFs personnel. However, marriage/remarriage subsequently would not disqualify a person.
Note 02: The scholarship is admissible for two children only per family. Since the scholarship from PM’s Scheme is restricted to 2 children only, therefore particulars of all children should be indicated in the appropriate column. The application process is as follows: Step 01: The applications are invited from eligible candidates by 30th November of each year.
Step 02: Each applicant should submit his/her application to the concerned force Head Quarter. (Application FormAnnexure)
Step 03: After scrutiny, all applications of selected candidates should be sent to the Chairman, Welfare And Rehabilitation Board, CPFs, CGO Complex, New Delhi so as to reach by 15th December of each year.
Step 04: The final list of selected candidates will be prepared by WARB and should be forwarded to MHA by 31st December each year for further necessary action.
Step 05: Selected applicants will be informed directly by the WARB, CPFs, Ministry of Home Affairs.
Note 01: Application received directly by WARB and MHA will not be entertained as the checklist enclosed with the application is required to be verified by the concerned forces Head Quarter.
Note 02: Incomplete application forms and applications received after the specified date will NOT be considered. A wrong or misleading entry will lead to rejection of the application. Any deletion/correction should be initiated by the applicant himself/herself.
Note 03: The respective offices will acknowledge receipt of only those applications received by the due date. Late receipted applications will not be processed.
Note 04: Two stamped selfaddressed envelopes of 27x12 cms are to be attached with each application so as to facilitate acknowledgement of receipt of the application form.
Note 05: If an applicant granted a scholarship on the basis of the statement made in the application is at any subsequent date found to have made a false statement in any respect, both the wards of exCPFs personnel /widow will forfeit the scholarship and no application from the exCPFs personnel /widow would be entertained in future. In addition, the scholarship already granted would also have to be refunded.
Note 06: The attested photocopies of the supporting legal documents duly attested by any Gazetted Officer or Unit Commander of CPFs are to be attached to the application form.
Note 07: If the marks in the qualifying examination are expressed in grades only, then an equivalent percentage (100 point scale) duly certified by the concerned Board must be furnished.
Note 08: All wards applying for scholarships will open individual bank accounts in the principal bank designated by the Institute concerned and the account number must be mentioned in the application form for release of scholarship payment.
Note 09: A person having been granted a scholarship for one programme would not be entitled to the scholarship for another programme.
Note 10: The scheme is open for courses mentioned above in recognized institutions irrespective of its location in the country visàvis the residence/domicile of the wards of the CPFs personnel/widows.
Note 11: The payment for the scholarship will be centrally made by the Welfare And Rehabilitation Board, CPFs directly, through account payee cheques, to be credited to the personal account of the individual ward/the mode of electronic clearing system. The first priority of the scholarship will be given to the account number which has an “electronic clearance system”
Note 12: The amount of scholarship, including any other scholarship or financial assistance from any other source, should not exceed the total grant of assistance available under this scheme.
Note 13: The Ministry of Home Affairs, Government of India can suitably modify these instructions to remove difficulties, if any, for successful implementation of the scheme, as may be deemed necessary from time to time. For more information, please refer to: Official Website: https://www.mha.gov.in/en/schemes Guidelines: https://www.mha.gov.in/sites/default/files/2022-08/PMSS-GLiens081008%5B1%5D.pdf Tags associated with the scheme include: Central Police Force, CPF, Ex-servicemen, Scholarship, Wards, Widow.