The name of this welfare scheme is Pradhan Mantri Uchchatar Shiksha Protsahan (PM-USP) Central Sector Scheme of Scholarship for College and University students. It is also known as PM-USP-CSSS. &amp;quot;Pradhan Mantri Uchchatar Shiksha Protsahan (PM-USP) Central Sector Scheme of Scholarship for College and University Students&amp;quot; is a Scholarship Scheme by the Department of Higher Education, Ministry of Education.  The primary objective of the scheme is to provide financial assistance to meritorious students from poor families to meet a part of their day-to-day expenses while pursuing higher studies. The scholarships are awarded based on the results of the Higher Secondary/ Class 12th Board Examination. A maximum of 82,000 fresh scholarships per annum are provided for pursuing Graduate/ Postgraduate degrees in colleges and universities and for professional courses, such as Medical, Engineering etc. The scheme targets beneficiaries such as Individual. Additionally, the nodal ministry is Ministry of Education and the nodal department is Department Of Higher Education.

The scheme provides the following benefits: Rate of Scholarship

₹12,000/per annum at the Graduation level for the first three years of College and University courses.
₹20,000 per annum at the Postgraduation level.
₹20,000/per annum in the 4th and 5th year to the Students pursuing professional courses, in case, where the duration of the course is five (5) years/Integrated course.
Students pursuing technical courses such as B.Tech, B.Engg. will get scholarship up to graduation level only i.e. ₹12,000 p.a. for 1st, 2nd, and 3rd year and ₹20,000 in the 4th year.



Mode of Disbursal
The scholarship will be disbursed directly into the savings bank accounts of the beneficiaries through Direct Benefit Transfer (DBT).

Eligibility criteria include: The applicant must be above the 80th percentile of successful candidates in the relevant stream from the respective Board of Examination in Class 12th of 10+2 pattern or equivalent.
  The applicant must be pursuing regular degree courses.
  The applicant must be pursuing courses at colleges/ institutions recognized by the All India Council for Technical Education and the respective Regulatory Bodies concerned.
  The gross parental/ family income of the applicant should not exceed ₹4,50,000/per annum.
  For renewal of scholarship in each year of study, besides getting at least 50% marks in the Annual Examination, maintenance of adequate attendance should be at least 75%.
  The students are required to have bank accounts opened, especially, in their name. The application process is as follows: &gt; New Registration:

Step 1: Visit the Registration page of the National Scholarships Portal.
Step 2: Guidelines for Registration will appear. Scroll to the bottom. Read carefully the undertaking. Accept the Terms. Click “Continue”.
Step 3: A Registration Form will appear. (The fields marked as  are compulsory). Fill in the details and click “Register”. Your Application ID and password will be displayed. The same will also be sent as an SMS to your registered mobile number.
&gt; Fresh Application:

Step 1: Visit the applicant Login page of the National Scholarships Portal Enter your Application ID and password.
Step 2: Type the Captcha and click “Login”.
Step 3: On the next screen, provide the OTP received on your registered mobile number. You will be directed to the Password Reset screen. Create a new password and confirm.
Step 4: Click “Submit”. You will be directed to the “Applicant’s Dashboard”.
Step 5: On the left pane, click “Application Form”. The fields marked as  are compulsory. Fill in the details and upload the documents. The verification of credentials of the students (caste, educational qualifications etc.) will be done through the DIGILOCKER facility of the MeitY, Govt. of India. 
Step 6: You can either click on “Save as Draft” to complete the application later. Else, click “Final Submit” to apply.
&lt;br&gt;

Track Payment Status
The student can track their payment status from the template “Know Your Payment” in the Public Financial Management System (PFMS) Portal either by indicating their Aadhaar Number, Bank Account number or NSP Application ID.
&lt;br&gt;

NOTE 1: The National Scholarships Portal will provide the timelines for opening &amp;amp; closing of the portal.
NOTE 2: Online applications will be verified at two levels i.e. by the Institute, where the student is studying and thereafter by the concerned State Higher Education Department or any other Agency/ Official nominated by the State as State Nodal  Agency (both for fresh and renewal applicants).
NOTE 3: Students will not be permanently debarred for scholarships due to delay in renewal or verification. However, students will have to submit renewal applications within a cutoff date. Renewal for that year will not be allowed if an applicant misses this deadline. 
&lt;br&gt;

&gt; Grievance Redressal

In case of any grievances/complaints regarding the above scheme, the same may be registered to the following link: http://pgportal.gov.in/grievancenew.aspx other than to the Nodal Officer whose email is available on the NSP portal (Services Tab).
&gt; Contact Us

Section Officer
National Scholarship Division
Department of Higher Education, Ministry of Education
West Block 1, 2nd Floor, Wing 6, Room No. 6, R. K. Puram, Sector 1, New Delhi Tele: 01120862360, Email: sonationalscholarship@gmail.com For more information, please refer to: Guidelines (2024): https://scholarships.gov.in/public/schemeGuidelines/CSSS_GUIDLINES_07022024_updated.pdf FAQs: https://scholarships.gov.in/public/schemeGuidelines/FAQ_DOHE_CSSS.pdf User Manual: https://scholarships.gov.in/public/FAQ/training_of_users_nsp.pdf Tags associated with the scheme include: College, Financial Assistance, Scholarship, Student, University.