The name of this welfare scheme is Odisha State Treatment Fund. It is also known as OSTF. The Department of Health and Family Welfare, Government of Odisha introduced a scheme named The &amp;quot;Odisha State Treatment Fund&amp;quot; scheme which aims to provide financial assistance to the poor patients who are suffering from life threatening disorders &amp;amp; diseases, for treatment of their major ailments. The fund is managed by an autonomous society known as “Odisha State Treatment Fund Society”. The Society is registered under the Societies Registration Act, 1860. The financial assistance will be released to the Medical Institutions in which treatment has been/is being given to the patients. The eligible patients will be provided assistance for treatment in specific life threatening diseases as mentioned at Annexure – D in the detailed guidelines. The scheme targets beneficiaries such as Individual. It is specifically implemented in Odisha. Additionally, the nodal department is Health and Family Welfare Department.

The scheme provides the following benefits: OSTF will be a top up to RSBY. The patient will be covered under RSBY at the first assistance and where the amount of assistance required exceeds the limit of RSBY, the patient will be provided assistance under OSTF.
   Treatment cost so approved shall be within the upper limit of Rs.00 lakh (Rupees three lakh only).
   The sanction of District Head Quarters Hospitals shall be limited to Rs.30,000/per case. Where the quantum of assistance exceeds Rs.30,000/CDMO with the approval of the CollectorcumDistrict Magistrate concerned can sanction up to Rs.50,000/.
   For assistance over and above Rs.00 lakh, approval of the Hon’ble Chief Minister, Odisha needs to be obtained.

Eligibility criteria include: It is applicable to persons below the poverty line, person with annual family income not exceeding Rs.40,000/in rural area and Rs.60,000/in urban areas. Either BPL card / AAY card or annual income certificate issued by concerned Tahasildar will be accepted for determining the eligibility.
   Rastriya Swasthya Bima Yojana (RSBY) card holder is also eligible under this scheme.
   An unknown accident victim, patients duly referred from registered destitute home / orphanage / mental asylum / Child care Institutions are also eligible for assistance under the scheme subject to citing sufficient reason thereof for recommending the patient under the scheme.
   Assistance will be available only to patients undergoing treatment as inpatient in any of the Govt./Empanelled private hospitals. However this will not restrict : Cancer patients from getting chemo in Govt. Day Care Centre without being formally admitted &amp;amp; Patients who have undergone kidney transplantation at Govt. Hospitals from getting postoperative care including supply of free medicines and investigation up to 6 months from the date discharge. The application process is as follows: A. Procedure for seeking treatment assistance in Government Medical Colleges &amp;amp; Hospitals, Sishubhawan, Cuttack and AHRCC, Cuttack under “OSTF”

   The application in the prescribed format with all necessary documents attached to it shall be submitted by the applicant to the Nodal Officer of the concerned Department. The Nodal Officer will scrutinise the application and will forward the same to the HOD of the concerned Department.
   If the Committee approves the same, the treatment of the patient will be done free of cost at the hospital, strictly restricting to the amount sanctioned.
   The sanctioning power of the Committee shall be limited to Rs.00 lakh only. Where the quantum of assistance exceeds Rs.00 lakh, Screening Committee will immediately sanction assistance up to Rs.00 lakh and with the approval of the Revenue Divisional Commissioner concerned can sanction the rest of the amount up to a maximum of Rs.00 lakh. In case of treatment assistance required beyond Rs.00 lakh, the same shall be forwarded by the Screening Committee with their views to the Executive Committee of OSTFC for consideration and approval.
   A separate bank account in State Bank of India, nearer to the medical college shall be opened by medical college under the signature of Dean &amp;amp; Principal, Superintendent and DDO concerned. Amount can be withdrawn with signature of at least two of the account holders.

B. Procedure for seeking treatment assistance at District Hospitals / Capital Hospitals / RGH Under “OSTF”

   The patient will submit the application form in the prescribed format with all necessary documents attached, to the Nodal Officer.
   If the Committee approves the same, the treatment of the patient will be done free of cost at the hospital, strictly restricted to the amount sanctioned.
   The sanctioning power of the Committee shall be limited to Rs.30,000/only for District Headquarter Hospital and Rs.00 lakh for Capital Hospital and RGH. Where the quantum of assistance exceeds Rs.30,000/, CDMO with the approval of the CollectorcumDistrict Magistrate concerned can sanction up to maximum limit of Rs.50,000/. For CMO, Capital Hospital, BBSR and RGH, Rourkela, if the treatment cost exceeds Rs.00 lakh, the same will be referred to DMET, Odisha for approval.
   Director / CMO / CDMO will sanction the treatment cost for which they are empowered and ensure continuance of treatment of patient pending approval of designated authority for the sanction of balance required amount.
   A separate bank account in State Bank of India, nearer to the DHH / Capital Hospital / RGH will be opened with the signature of CDMO / CMO, ADMO (Medical) of DHH / DDO and one of the Specialists to operate the fund. Amount can be withdrawn with signature of at least two of the account holders.

C. Procedure for seeking financial assistance For treatment at private &amp;amp; other hospitals under “OSTF”

   The eligible patients will not be admitted into empanelled private hospitals as a case of first entry. They must be referred from Govt. Medical College or by the CDMOs / CMOs as have been authorised by Govt. (Subject to modification from time to time)AnnexureF.
   In emergency case (cardiac arrest, road accident etc.) patient will get himself admitted to the empanelled private hospital without being referred. However, the authority of private hospital will intimate such admission to DMET within 24 hours. On being satisfied that the patient was suffering from disease requiring immediate treatment, DMET will approve covering such patient under OSTF fold.
   The Private Hospitals on admission of the patients will provide the required treatment and claim the treatment cost from DMET, Odisha after discharge of the patient.
   Funds will be released in favour of Private Hospitals towards the treatment of eligible patients as per CGHS rate applicable to the city where the hospital is located or the actual cost of treatment whichever is less. For more information, please refer to: Guidelines: https://health.odisha.gov.in/sites/default/files/2020-03/OSTF_Revised_Guidelines.pdf List Of Empanelled Private Hospitals: https://health.odisha.gov.in/healthostf/list-empanelled-private-hospitals Tags associated with the scheme include: Financial Assistance, Life Threatening Disorders & Diseases, Patients.