The name of this welfare scheme is Vanchit Ikai Samooh Aur Vargon Ko Aarthik Sahayata Yojana. It is also known as VISVAS. The VISVAS (Vanchit Ikai Samooh aur Vargon ko Aarthik Sahayata) Scheme aims to provide interest subvention to OBC/SC Self Help Groups (SHGs) or individuals. It is being implemented by the Ministry of Social Justice and Empowerment.


The objective of the scheme is to provide the direct benefit of a lower rate of interest to the eligible beneficiaries who have availed loans through Public Sector Banks (PSBs), Regional Rural Banks (RRBs) and similar financial institutions hereinafter referred to as Lending Institutions. 


In December 2020, the VISVAS scheme got a major boost after the National Backward Classes Finance &amp; Development Corporation (NBCFDC) and National Scheduled Castes Finance and Development Corporation (NSFDC) signed a Memorandum of Agreement (MoA) with the Central Bank of India and Punjab National Bank, premier and leading Public Sector Banks. The scheme targets beneficiaries such as Self Help Groups (SHGS). The implementing agency is National Backward Classes Finance & Development Corporation (NBCFDC). Additionally, the nodal ministry is Ministry Of Social Justice and Empowerment and the nodal department is Department of Social Justice & Empowerment.

It falls under the categories: Social welfare & Empowerment.

Eligibility criteria include: > Eligibility Criteria for Other Backward Classes (OBCs)

Members of Backward Classes, as notified by Central Government/State Governments
All OBC Antyodaya Anna Yojana (AAY) cardholders, and OBC individuals facing three or more Deprivations in terms of SECC2011, as per records available at the relevant BDO Office shall be eligible for Interest Subvention
All OBC beneficiaries involved in Agricultural activities and getting coverage under the PM KISAN
SHGs must be registered with NRLM/NULM/NABARD with more than two years of credit history


> Eligibility Criteria for Scheduled Castes (SCs):

NSFDC recognized SelfHelp Groups (SHGs) registered with NRLM/NULM and NABARD
The definition of Scheduled Castes includes all castes notified in the State and/or Central Government lists of SCs
Valid Annual Income Certificate issued by the competent authority of the State Government
AAY cardholders, and other individuals facing three or more Deprivations in terms of SECC2011
All beneficiaries involved in Agricultural activities and getting coverage under the PM KISAN For more information, please refer to: Guidelines: https://nbcfdc.gov.in/visvas-yojana/en Tags associated with the scheme include: Loan, OBC, SHG, Social Welfare.