The name of this welfare scheme is Grant of Financial Assistance to Poor Scheduled Caste Pregnant & Lactating Women. It is also known as GFAPSCPLW. The scheme “Grant of Financial Assistance to Poor Scheduled Caste Pregnant &amp; Lactating Women” was introduced by the Adi Dravidar Welfare Department, Government of Puducherry. The objective of the scheme is to provide assistance for the well-being of Pregnant and Lactating mothers and their children. The scheme targets beneficiaries such as Individual. It is specifically implemented in Puducherry. Additionally, the nodal department is Adi Dravidar Welfare Department, Puducherry.

The scheme provides the following benefits: Financial Assistance of ₹12,000/as follows:

The prenatal assistance shall be ₹ 2,000 in cash per month for three months prior to the month of delivery.
The postnatal assistance shall be ₹ 2,000 in cash per month for three months following delivery. 

 The grant of financial assistance is made available only for 2 deliveries.

Eligibility criteria include: The applicant should be a citizen of India.
The applicant should belong to the Union Territory of Pondicherry by virtue of birth or continuous residence of not less than 3 years.
The applicant should be from Scheduled Caste.
The applicant should be a woman.
The applicant should be pregnant.
The applicant should apply from 6 months of pregnancy and within 3 months from the date of delivery.
The annual income of the applicant and spouse should not exceed ₹ 2,00,000/.
The grant of financial assistance is made available only for 2 deliveries. The application process is as follows: Step 1: The interested applicant should visit (during office hours) the Office/ SubOffice of the Adi Dravidar Welfare and Scheduled Tribes Welfare Department, and request the hard copy of the prescribed format of the application form from the staff exclusively entrusted to issue and collect filledin applications.
Step 2: In the application form, fill in all the mandatory fields, paste the passportsized photograph (signed across, if required), and attach copies of all the mandatory documents (selfattest, if required).
Step 3: Submit the duly filled and signed application form along with the documents to the concerned authority.
Step 4: Request a receipt or acknowledgment from the concerned authority to whom the application has been submitted. Ensure that the receipt contains essential details such as the date and time of submission, and a unique identification number (if applicable). Step 1: Visit the Official Website of the eDistrict Portal of the Government of Puducherry.
Step 2: At the top right corner of the home page, click &quot;Login&quot;. In the login screen, click &quot;Register a New Membership&quot;.
Step 3: On the Registration Page, fill in all the mandatory fields: Username, Password, Confirm Password, Personal Details (Full Name, First Name, Email Address, Address, Current Address, Gender, Date of Birth, Mobile Number). Agree to the declaration. Fill in the Captcha Code, and click &quot;Signup&quot;.
Step 4: Visit the Official Website of the eDistrict Portal of the Government of Puducherry.
Step 5: At the top right corner of the home page, click &quot;Login&quot;. In the login screen, provide your Username and Password, fill in the Captcha Code, and click &quot;Sign In&quot;.
Step 6: On the next screen, a list of schemes by the Government of Puducherry will be displayed Departmentwise.
Step 7: Click on the scheme you wish to apply for. You will be taken to its online application form.
Step 8: In the application form, fill in all the mandatory fields (marked with a red asterisk) and upload all the mandatory documents (selfattest if required). 
Step 9: Tick the declaration stating &quot;I hereby declare that the abovementioned details are true and correct as per the best of my Knowledge&quot;. Submit the application and note the application number for tracking your application. The application number will also be received on your Registered Mobile Number / Registered Email ID.
Track Your Application here
 Access the User Manual for Online Application here For more information, please refer to: Guidelines: https://adwelfare.py.gov.in/grant-financial-assistance-poor-sc-pregnant-lactating-women Application Form: https://adwelfare.py.gov.in/sites/default/files/104-10-1.pdf Citizen's Charter: https://py.gov.in/sites/default/files/citizencharter-adidravidar.pdf Contact Us: https://adwelfare.py.gov.in/contact-us Tags associated with the scheme include: Child, Financial Asisstance, Hospital, Infant, Pregnant, Scheduled Caste, Woman.