The name of this welfare scheme is LIDCOM Education Loan Scheme. It is also known as LELS. Being implemented since the year 2009, the &quot;Education Loan Scheme&quot; is a scheme by the Leather Industries Development Corporation (LIDCOM), Govt. of Maharashtra. In this scheme, finance of upto ₹ 20,00,000 is provided for post graduate students in the 18-50 years age group from Charmakar Community for studies in India and in abroad. Only the citizens who are a permanent resident of the state of Maharashtra are eligible to apply to this scheme. This is a Central Government Scheme and the funding for this scheme come from the National Scheduled Castes Finance and Development Corporation, New Delhi (NSFDC). The main objective of LIDCOM is to implement various schemes to uplift lifestyle of Charmakars (Dhor, Chambhar, Holar, Mochi etc.) who are economically weak and below poverty line and with an intention to develop them educationally, economically and socially so as to give them respectable place in Society. The scheme targets beneficiaries such as Individual. It is specifically implemented in Maharashtra. The implementing agency is District Offices Of The Leather Industries Development Corporation (LIDCOM). Additionally, the nodal department is Social Justice and Special Assistance Department.

It falls under the categories: Education & Learning, Banking,Financial Services and Insurance, Social welfare & Empowerment.

Eligibility criteria include: The applicant should be a citizen of India.
The applicant should be a permanent resident of Maharashtra State.
The applicant should be from Charmakar Community only (Dhor, Chambhar, Holar, Mochi etc.).
The applicant should be in the 18 to 50 years age group.
The annual income of the family of the applicant should be less than or equal to Rs.3,00,000/.
The applicant should have a knowledge of the business for which s/he has applied for loan. For more information, please refer to: Guidelines (LIDCOM): https://www.lidcom.co.in/education-loan-scheme.php Guidelines (SJSAD): https://sjsa.maharashtra.gov.in/en/scheme-category/education-training Tags associated with the scheme include: Education, Loan, Postgraduation, Scheduled Caste, Student.