The name of this welfare scheme is  Indira Mahila Shakti Udyam Protsahan Yojana. It is also known as IMSUPYR. The Indira Mahila Shakti Udyam Protsahan Yojana (IMSUPY) is a scheme launched by the Rajasthan government to empower women entrepreneurs by providing them with financial assistance and support. The main objective of the scheme is to ecourage women to start their own businesses and become financially independent. Promote self-employment and reduce unemployment among women in Rajasthan. Support the growth of micro, small, and medium enterprises (MSMEs) led by women. The scheme targets beneficiaries such as Individual. It is specifically implemented in Rajasthan. Additionally, the nodal department is Women and Child Development Department.

The scheme provides the following benefits: > Loan Limit


Loan amount of ₹ 50,00,000/to individual women.
Loan amount of Rs 1,00,00,000/to selfhelp groups.



> Margin Money


A margin money of 25% of the sanctioned loan amount will be provided under the scheme. For women belonging to Scheduled Castes/Tribes, Scheduled Castes, widows, abandoned women, victims of violence and disabled women, the margin money will be 30% of the sanctioned loan amount.


Note:


   The maximum limit of margin money will be ₹ 15,00,000/.
   The applicant&#39;s own contribution (5% / 10% of the project proposal) will be considered for margin money.
   Land value will not be included in the project proposal. The maximum limit of loan amount payable for construction of workshop/building will be up to 20% of the sanctioned amount of the project proposal.
   The maximum limit of loan for business will be Rs. 10 lakh. Business refers to wholesale or retail purchasesale of commercial products.




> Promotion of collateral security free loans:


As per the guidelines of the Reserve Bank of India, collateral security will not be required for loans up to Rs. 10 lakh. Loans above Rs. 10 lakh can be linked with the Credit Guarantee Trust Fund for Micro and Small Enterprises (CGTMSE). The fee amount will be borne by the beneficiary. If the applicant voluntarily wants to give collateral security on the loan, they can do so.

Eligibility criteria include: The applicant&#39;s age should be 18 years or more.
The applicant should be a permanent resident of Rajasthan.
The women&#39;s selfhelp group or group of these groups (cluster/ federation) must be registered under any department of the state government and in case of cluster/federation of groups, it will be necessary to be registered under the Cooperative Act as per the rules. The application process is as follows: > Registration

Step1: Applicant have to visit the official portal. 
Step2: Click on the option “Register”.
Step3: Then you will be redirected to the SSO registration page. The registration page will appear with the following options.


  Citizen


Step4: Choose the either one option from  the Jan Aadhaar Or Google to process further.


  Jan Aadhaar : Enter the Jan Aadhaar number, click on the ‘Next’ button,


      Select your name, the name of the head of the family and all the other members and 
      Click on the ‘Send OTP’ button. Enter the ‘OTP’ and 
      Click on the ‘Verify OTP’ button to Complete the registration. 






  Google : Enter the Gmail ID, click on the ‘Next’ button, 


      Enter the password.
      A new link appear on screen, now click on new SSO link.
      SSO id will appear on screen, now create the password.
      Enter Mobile number, click on registration.




Step5: Complete the registration process.


> Apply 

Step1: Applicant have to visit the official portal. 
Step2: Read the instruction carefullly and click on &quot;Apply&quot;.
Step3: Click on an &quot;Alert&quot; button and page will redirected to SSO portal. 
Step4: Now login with credentials. 
Step5: Now click on &quot;Apply for Scheme&quot; on screen. 
Step6: Now on the new page you will have to fill out the application form in 7 steps.
           Such as a general description
           Applicant details
           Details of applicant and workplace
           Description of the proposed project
           Details of proposed financial institution
           basis of ranking
           Document Upload and Declaration
Step7: After filling in all the details in the application form, submit the application form. For more information, please refer to: Guidelines: http://slbcrajasthan.in/assets/docs/pdf/govtschemes/Mahila.pdf Apply: https://ssoapps.rajasthan.gov.in/imsupy/Introduction.aspx Registration: https://sso.rajasthan.gov.in/register Tags associated with the scheme include: Development, Empowerment, Motivaction, Women.