The name of this welfare scheme is Kalpana Chawla Chatravriti Yojana. It is also known as KCCY. Launched in 2012-13 by the Government of Himachal Pradesh in honor of the late astronaut Kalpana Chawla, the &quot;Kalpana Chawla Chatravriti Yojana&quot; is a scholarship scheme that provides financial assistance to girls of Himachal Pradesh who belong to economically weaker sections and wish to pursue higher education without any financial burden, achieve their career goals and become self-reliant. The scheme is applicable to all the eligible girl students who are residents of Himachal Pradesh and studying in recognized institutions within the state. The scheme targets beneficiaries such as Individual. It is specifically implemented in Himachal Pradesh. Additionally, the nodal department is Education Department, Himachal Pradesh.

The scheme provides the following benefits: The scholarship amount is ₹ 15,000 per annum, which will be disbursed to the beneficiary&#39;s bank account directly.
The scholarship is renewable for up to five years, subject to the student meeting the eligibility criteria.

Eligibility criteria include: The applicant must be a resident of Himachal Pradesh.
The applicant must be a girl.
The applicant must be a regular student of 10+2, academic, professional or technical course in Science/Arts/Commerce stream.
The institution where the applicant is admitted must be a Government / Government Aided / Private School affiliated with the Himachal Pradesh Board of School Education.
The scholarship is available for higher education courses, including undergraduate, postgraduate, and professional courses.
The scholarship will be given strictly on 10+2 merit declared by the Himachal Pradesh Board of School Education, Dharamshala. The application process is as follows: Step 1: Go to http://www.scholarships.gov.in/ and click “New Registration”.
Guidelines for Registration will appear. Scroll to the bottom. 
Read carefully the undertaking. Accept the Terms. Click “Continue”.
 
Step 2:  A Registration Form will appear. (The fields marked as  are compulsory)
Fill the details and click “Register”. 
Your Application ID and password will be displayed.
The same will also be sent as an SMS on your registered mobile number. 


Step 3:  Go to https://scholarships.gov.in/fresh/newstdRegfrmInstruction 
Click on “Login to Apply”. Enter your Application ID and password.
Type the Captcha and click “Login”.
On the next screen, provide the OTP received on your registered mobile number. You will be directed to the Password Reset screen.
Create a new password and confirm.
Click “Submit”. You will be directed to the “Applicant’s Dashboard”.


 Step 4:  On the left pane, click “Application Form”. The fields marked as  are compulsory. Fill the details and upload the documents.
You can either click on “Save as Draft” to complete the application later.
Else, click “Final Submit” to submit the application. For more information, please refer to: Guidelines: https://education.hp.gov.in/sites/default/files/Files%252Fkalpana%2520chawla.pdf04_49_2012_10_10_45.pdf Tags associated with the scheme include: Post Matric, Postgraduate, Scholarship, Undergraduate.