The name of this welfare scheme is Integrated Horticulture Development. It is also known as Ihd. Horticulture sector in Assam deals with the following crops and activities.
(1)Fruits (2) Vegetables (3) Spices (4) Floriculture (5) Potato (6) Onion (7) Medicinal &amp; Aromatics (7) Mushroom cultivation and (8) Fruits &amp; Vegetables preservation and processing. Besides it deals with Bee keeping, Food processing, Micro irrigation and post harvest management including Cold-chain development. 
Major Fruit crops of the state – Banana, Pine apple, papaya, Assam lemon, Orange, Guava, Litchi, Jack fruit and Mango. Major tuber crops grown Potato, Sweet Potato and Tapioca, among Spices – Chilli, Turmeric, Ginger, Onion, Coriander, Garlic, Black pepper with different types of Rabi and Kharif Vegetables are grown in Assam. Flowers like Marigold,
Gerbera, Anthurium, Lilium,Tube rose etc. high value crops like Straw berry, Passion fruit and Apple ber are gradually becoming popular for cultivation because of higher return. In addition Mushroom production is being considered as profitable farming activities for unemployed youths. Horticulture &amp; FP Department, Assam is encouraging the farmers for area expansion of high value commercial fruits, Vegetables, Spices, Floricultural crops through different Central sector and State sector ongoing schemes, with an objective of increasing the production as well as productivity of these crops. The Department is giving emphasis on production and availability of quality planting materials of the commercial horticultural crops; so that higher production with better quality becomes possible, for which establishment of nurseries are encouraged under HMNEH and accreditation are advocated. The scheme targets beneficiaries such as Individual. It is specifically implemented in Assam. Additionally, the nodal department is Horticulture Department.

The scheme provides the following benefits: The Enhancement of horticulture production, augment farmers, income and strengthen nutritional security; Improve productivity by way of quality germplasm, planting material and water use efficiency through Micro Irrigation.

Horticulture Subsidy for Fruits and Vegetables.


Horticulture Subsidy for Spices (Maximum 4 ha for beneficiary)


Horticulture Subsidy for Flower Farming.


Horticulture Subsidy for Plantation Crops.


Horticulture Subsidy for Aromatic Plants.


Assistance for Orchards.

Eligibility criteria include: A person having Degree/Diploma in Civil/ Mechanical/ Electrical Engineering with 2 years&#39; post qualification experience preferably in irrigation sector and knowledge of computer. Eligibility criteria: Minimum 55% marks or 5/10 CGPA or equivalent marks at graduate/diploma level. The application process is as follows: Mission for Integrated Development of Horticulture” at District Agriculture office through local Agriculture Development Officer . For some special component like Cold Storage, Ripening Chamber, Cold Room, Rural Market, Retail Outlet applicant may apply through online hard copy of the online application should be submitted at District Agriculture Office. For more information, please refer to: Guidelines: https://dirhorti.assam.gov.in/sites/default/files/swf_utility_folder/departments/horticulture_medhassu_in_oid_5/portlet/level_1/files/PRESENT%20SCENARIO%20HORTICULTURE%20IN%20ASSAM.pdf Tags associated with the scheme include: Aromatic Plants, Coconut, Cashewand, Covering Fruits, Mushrooms, Root And Tuber Crops, Spices, Flowers, Vegetables.