The name of this welfare scheme is Viklang Bharan Poshan Anudaan. It is also known as VBPA. In the state, blind, deaf, and physically handicapped destitute persons who neither have any means of their own to live nor can they do any kind of hard work, so that they can be maintained, for this purpose. Under the government&amp;#39;s welfare scheme, the scheme of giving destitute disabled maintenance grants was implemented for destitute disabled people to live under social security, which is also commonly known as disabled pension. The scheme targets beneficiaries such as Individual. It is specifically implemented in Uttarakhand. Additionally, the nodal department is Department Of Social Welfare.

The scheme provides the following benefits: To divyangs Rs.1500/per month pension 
To the divyangs who are free from leprosy Rs. 1500/per month
Monthly allowance to the parents of disabled children from the age of 018 years of Rs. 700/.
To mentally handicapped wife/husband monthly pension of Rs.1500/.

Eligibility criteria include: The certificate that the disability of the candidate is at least 40 percent has been provided by the Chief Medical Officer.
   Candidate should not have any source of income or belong to BPL selected family or monthly income should be up to Rs.4000/.
   If the son/grandson of the candidate is above 20 years of age but is living below the poverty line, then such a candidate will be eligible for a maintenance grant. The application process is as follows: Applicants have to visit the official website of the Department Of Social Welfare Uttarakhand State. https://socialwelfare.uk.gov.in
   Here you have to click on the link of Pension Yojna.
   On clicking, the next page will open. here you will see some pension yojana options Press  Uttarakhand Viklang Bharan Poshan Anudaan.
   Out of these, you have to click on the option of application form. As soon as you click on it, the list of different application forms will open on your screen.
   Now you have to click and download the application form for the  Uttarakhand Viklang Bharan Poshan Anudaan   After this fill in all the information asked in the Uttarakhand Viklang Bharan Poshan Anudaan.
   Along with this, attach the asked documents as well.
   Finally, after checking all the information and documents in the application form, submit it to the concerned department.
   Applicant should visit Social Welfare Department in the concerned District/Taluka. For more information, please refer to: Guidelines: https://socialwelfare.uk.gov.in/pages/display/96-disability-pension Application Form: https://socialwelfare.uk.gov.in/files/HandicapFormat0-18_1.pdf Tags associated with the scheme include: Differently Abled, Financial Assistance, Pension.