The name of this welfare scheme is Mukhyamantri Nischay Swayam Sahayata Bhatta Yojna. It is also known as MNSSBY. Even today there are many citizens in the country who are unable to get employment even after being educated. In such a situation, they have to face many financial difficulties. 
In this situation,  Allowance is provided by the Government of Bihar to the educated unemployed citizens under the Chief Minister Self Help Allowance Scheme, so that the citizens of the state do not have to face financial crisis. The scheme targets beneficiaries such as Individual. It is specifically implemented in Bihar. Additionally, the nodal department is Planning and Development Department.

The scheme provides the following benefits: The amount of selfhelp allowance will be paid to the eligible applicant at the rate of Rs.1000 per month for a maximum period of two years.

Eligibility criteria include: From the age group of 20 to 25 years, unemployed young men/women who are not studying and are looking for employment and whose educational qualification is inter (12th) passed from a governmentrecognized institution located in the state but Have not received higher education.
   The applicant should be a permanent resident of the district of Bihar state, where he is submitting the application in the district registration centre.
   The applicant should not have received any kind of allowance/scholarship/student credit card/education loan or any kind of assistance from any other source.
   The applicant should not get any type of government or nongovernment employment (contract/permanent/ temporary).
   The applicant should not be selfemployed.
   The day the applicant gets permanent/temporary employment or selfemployment, his eligibility for allowance given under this scheme will end and accordingly, the payment of allowance will be stopped as soon as information is received from him.
   Unemployed youth/women applying for the amount of selfhelp allowance will have to compulsorily get training in language communication and basic computer knowledge (skilled youth program) conducted by Labor Resources Department and they will get a total amount of selfhelp allowance for the last 5 months will not be released until they successfully surrender the certificate of the said training. The application process is as follows: The applicants need to visit the official website and click on new registration. The applicants then need to fill in their Name, Mobile Number and Email ID and type the characters given in the picture below then click on the “send OTP” button.
The applicants have to authenticate themselves by providing the OTP.
A confirmation message is displayed. Applicants need to confirm if the details are correct and a Successful registration message will be displayed and the user name and password will be sent to the user by email and SMS.
The applicants then need to visit the home official page and log in using the username and password provided in the email/SMS.The applicants need to fill in the information on the Personal Information Page.
After filling in all the information, applicants will click on the ‘Submit’ button. A confirmation message will be displayed. The applicant will click on “ok” to confirm that the details are correct.
The applicants need to click on ‘next’. This will take the applicant to the screen for selecting the scheme he wants to apply for
Applicant needs to select one of the Schemes from the dropdown menu to apply and fill out the details in the form and sign the declaration.
A confirmation message will be displayed and a PDF copy of the acknowledgement will get displayed For more information, please refer to: Guidelines: https://www.7nishchay-yuvaupmission.bihar.gov.in/resources/Swayam_Sahayata_Bhatta_Yojana.pdf Online Registration: https://www.7nishchay-yuvaupmission.bihar.gov.in/addFtrUserPage Application Flow: https://www.7nishchay-yuvaupmission.bihar.gov.in/resources/Process_Flow_for_SHA.pdf Tags associated with the scheme include: Financial Assistance, Skilled Youth Program, Social Welfare, Unemployment.