The name of this welfare scheme is Government Service Home - Tamil Nadu. It is also known as GSH-TN. The scheme &quot;Government Service Home&quot; was launched by the Social Welfare and Women Empowerment Department, Government of Tamil Nadu. This scheme aims to provide institutional care to widows, destitute women, deserted women, adolescent girls and differently-abled women and their children who are economically and socially backward by giving them protection, education and vocational training. The scheme targets beneficiaries such as Individual. It is specifically implemented in Tamil Nadu. Additionally, the nodal department is Department of Social Welfare and Women Empowerment.

The scheme provides the following benefits: The beneficiary is provided accommodation, Food, Education, Vocational training, Free supply of textbooks, notebooks, uniforms, chappals, and sanitary napkins.

Eligibility criteria include: The applicant should be a female.
The applicant&#39;s annual income should not exceed ₹ 72,000/(not applicable for differently abled).
The age of the applicant should be between 14 to 45 years. 
The applicant should qualify as one of the following:


Widow.
Destitute Woman.
Deserted Woman.
Adolescent Girl.
Differently Abled Woman.
Woman from Socially and Economically Backward Sections. 



NOTE: The women can stay with their male child up to 5th standard and girl child up to 12th standard in the Service Home. The application process is as follows: Step 1: The applicant should gather copies of the necessary documents (selfattest if required) needed to apply for the concerned scheme.
Step 2: The applicant should visit the nearest Common Service Center (CSC) and complete the Biometric Verification Process.
Step 3: In the application form, fill in all the mandatory fields and upload copies of all the mandatory documents.
Step 4: Request a receipt or acknowledgement from the CSC. Ensure that the receipt contains essential details such as the date and time of submission, and a unique identification number (if applicable). Step 1: The interested applicant should take print of the prescribed format of the application form:

Application for Higher Secondary Course.Application for Tailoring / Secretarial Course.Application for General Course.Application form for New 10th std patternApplication form for the issue of Free books and Notebooks to poor widow&#39;s schoolgoing children. 
Step 2: In the application form, fill in all the mandatory fields, paste the passportsized photograph (signed across, if required), and attach copies of all the mandatory documents (selfattest, if required).
Step 3: Submit the duly filled and signed application form along with the documents to the District Social Welfare Officer/ Extension Officer (Social Welfare).
Step 4: Request a receipt or acknowledgement from the concerned authority to whom the application has been submitted. Ensure that the receipt contains essential details such as the date and time of submission, and a unique identification number (if applicable). For more information, please refer to: Citizen's Charter (Page No. 20): https://cms.tn.gov.in/sites/default/files/documents/swwe_e_cc_2022_23.pdf Location Details Of GSH (Page No. 24): https://cms.tn.gov.in/sites/default/files/documents/swwe_e_cc_2022_23.pdf Tags associated with the scheme include: Deserted, Destitute, Education, Food, Girl, Home, Women.