The name of this welfare scheme is Biju Patnaik Sports Award for Best Contribution to promotion of Sports and Games. It is also known as BPSABCPSG. The “Biju Patnaik Sports Award for Best Contribution to Promotion of Sports and Games” is a category of award under the “Biju Patnaik Sports Award&amp;quot; Scheme. The scheme was launched by the Sports &amp;amp; Youth Services Department, Government of Odisha to commemorate the yeoman service of late Biju Patnaik, the ex-Chief Minister of Odisha, towards the development of Sports &amp;amp; Games in the State by conferring the highest honor of the Government of Odisha in the field of Sports in his name. The award is given the individuals who have substantially contributed in various ways such as Sports Administration and sports Support Staff (other than Coaches) and also to the organizations that have substantially contributed by recruiting sportspersons, providing financial support to sportspersons for advanced coaching &amp;amp; International participation, and sponsorship support for the organization of National and international sporting events.
&gt; Objective:


   1. To encourage the development of Sports and Games in the State.
   1. To honor meritorious sportspersons who have made the State Proud.
   1. To inspire and motivate young talents to excel in sports and games by emulating the seniors.

Sports Discipline: The sports disciplines recognized by the International Olympic Committee (I.O.C.), Indian Olympic Association (I.O.A.), Government of India (G.O.I.), Sports Authority of India (S.A.I.) and Government of Odisha (G.O.O.) including Sports Event for Persons with Disability. The scheme targets beneficiaries such as Individual, NGO, Registered Societies. It is specifically implemented in Odisha. The implementing agency is Sports & Youth Services Department, Government Of Odisha. Additionally, the nodal department is Sports and Youth Services Department.

The scheme provides the following benefits: The award shall be presented every year subject to the availability of a suitable candidate, which will carry a cash award of ₹1,00,000/.
   A statue, a scroll of honor, and a blazer with a tie shall be given along with all the Cash Awards.
   The Awardees shall be invited to receive the awards in person. They shall be given T.A. and D.A. at the rate admissible to a Grade &amp;#39;A&amp;#39; Officer.

Note:

   Canvassing for the award in any form is prohibited.
   The award can also be given posthumously to the next of kin of the awardee (In the case of the applicant).
   In case of selection of more than one person/organization for an award, the award money will be shared amongst the awardees.
   It will not be binding on the Department of Sports &amp;amp; Youth Services to confer the award every year. In case of nonavailability of suitable persons/organizations for the award, the award shall not be given for the respective year.

Eligibility criteria include: Both individuals/organizations will be eligible for this award.

&gt; Individual applicant:


   The applicant should be a permanent resident of the State of Odisha or shall be staying at least for a period not less than 07 years.
   The minimum age of the applicant should be 45 years as of 1st January of the year of the Award and must have substantially contributed in various ways such as Sports Administration and sports Support Staff (other than Coaches).
   The applicant should not have been convicted of any criminal offence.
   The award will be conferred on a person only once in his/her lifetime, pertaining to the concerned category.
   The award can be given posthumously to the next of kin of the selected sportsperson.

&gt; Applicant Organization: 


  The organization must have substantially contributed by recruiting sportspersons, providing financial support to sportspersons for advanced coaching &amp;amp; International participation, and sponsorship support for the organization of National and international sporting events.

&gt; Annulment Cancellation of Award:


  The Award may be cancelled in case it is found that it has been obtained by fraudulent means.
  In such event, the concerned person shall be asked to refund the award failing which steps will be taken to recover the involved cost from him/her with simple interest @ 5% per annum. The application process is as follows: Visit the official website of the department and click on the &amp;quot;Biju Patnaik Sports Award&amp;quot; tab under the Sports Service category.   On clicking, sign in web page for the applicant will open.    Click on &amp;quot;New Applicant&amp;quot; for registration of new applicant on the portal.   Once clicked, application form will open. Fill all the details and submit.
   After registration, enter registration number on the sign in web page to apply for a scheme.    Once application form is filled the Hard copy of the applications may be sent along with supporting documents to Director Sports, Sports and Youth Services Department, Kalinga Stadium Sports Complex Bhubaneswar, If the applicant is unable to upload any document or unable to fill details, he/she can send hard copies of applications along with necessary documents by Registered post/speed post/courier to the Director Sports, Sports and Youth Services Department, Govt of Odisha, Kalinga Stadium Sports Complex, Bhubaneswar,For latest updates about the scheme, the applicant may visit https://sports.odisha.gov.in/ &gt; Application process:

Step 01: Advertisement for the award shall be uploaded every year in January on the Department Website with the prescribed format for the application.
Step 02: The applicant/Applicant organization can download the application form from the official website or collect it from the office of the District Collector, DSOs, SPs, NYKS, Odisha Council of Sports and Sports &amp;amp; Youth Services Department.
Step 03: Fill in the all necessary details in the application form and attach all the relevant documents. 
Step 04: The application forms can be sent by the Collector, SP, DSO, NYKS concerned Sports Association, the person himself/herself or Odisha Council of Sports to the Sports &amp;amp; Youth Services Department.
Note 01: The Department of Sports and Youth Services also reserves the right to Suo moto nominate names for the award.
Note 02: The application form and all supporting documents must be selfattested by the applicant, i.e. there is no need for attestation by any Gazette officer.
&gt; Scrutiny of Application:


  The Secretary, Sports and Youth Services Department will constitute a fivemember scrutiny Committee comprising senior officials and coaches of the Department with DirectorcumAddl. Secretary, Sports and Youth Services Department or the senior most officer of the Department as head of the Committee to scrutinize all the applications and place the scrutiny result before the selection committee for consideration.

&gt; Selection Procedure: 


  An eightmember Selection Committee will be constituted by Govt. under the chairmanship of the Secretary, Sports and Youth Services Department for the selection of awardees.
  The Selection Committee shall examine the scrutinized nominations/ applications and recommend names for each award for approval of the Government at the level of Hon&amp;#39;ble Minister, Sports &amp;amp; Youth Services

&gt; Timeline for the Award:


  Invitation of application through issue of Advertisement: By 31st January.
  Last date for receipt of applications: By 31st March
  Scrutiny and Selection: By 31st May
  Award Ceremony: 29th August (National Sports Day) For more information, please refer to: Official Website: https://sports.odisha.gov.in/ Scheme Guidelines: https://portal.sportsodisha.gov.in/Files/Guidelines/SportsAward.pdf Tags associated with the scheme include: Award, Promotion Of Games, Promotion Of Sports.