The name of this welfare scheme is Scheme for Grant of Financial Assistance to Industrial Workers/Employee for Purchase of Spectacles. It is also known as SGFAIWEPS. The &quot;Scheme for Grant of Financial Assistance to Industrial Workers/Employee for Purchase of Spectacles&quot; by the Goa Labour Welfare Board, Department of Labour and Employment, Goa, aims to provide financial aid to industrial workers/employees for acquiring spectacles. Through this scheme, assistance is extended to enhance the vision of eligible workers. The scheme targets beneficiaries such as Individual. It is specifically implemented in Goa. The implementing agency is Goa Building And Other Construction Workers Welfare Board. Additionally, the nodal department is Labour and Employment Department.

The scheme provides the following benefits: A financial assistance of up to ₹2,000 is provided to cover the cost of the frame and lens of the spectacle (If the expenses exceed this amount, the worker/employee will have to bear the additional cost).
Replacement of spectacles is allowed only after five years after the initial purchase. However, if the lens power requires a change, replacement can be done after one year, with expenses not exceeding ₹

Eligibility criteria include: The applicant should be an industrial worker/employee covered under clause (C) of Section 2 of the Goa, Daman and Diu Labour Welfare Fund Act, The applicant should have completed one year of service in the industrial establishment on the date of application, including broken spells of service.
The applicant should get their eyes tested in the State Hospitals or the Goa Medical College or by a qualified Optician.
The applicant should obtain the lens (s) number for the spectacles. The application process is as follows: Step 1: The interested applicant should take print of the prescribed format of the application form for the scheme from the Official Website of the Department of Labour and Employment, Goa.
Step 2: In the application form, fill in all the mandatory fields, paste the passportsized photograph (if required), and attach copies of all the mandatory documents (selfattest, if required).
Step 3: The interested applicant should submit the duly filled and signed application form and the documents through their employer to the Secretary, Goa Labour Welfare Board, 4th floor, Shram Shakti Bhavan, Patto Centre, Panaji, Goa 403  For more information, please refer to: Guidelines & Application Form: https://labour.goa.gov.in/wp-content/uploads/2020/07/SCHEME-5-converted.pdf Citizen's Charter: https://www.goa.gov.in/wp-content/uploads/2016/05/Citizen-Charter-Labour-Depatment-DATED-16032016.pdf Contact Us: https://www.goa.gov.in/department/commissioner-labour-and-employment/ Tags associated with the scheme include: Employee, Eyes, Spectacle, Vision, Worker.