The name of this welfare scheme is Chief Minister's Self Employment Scheme. It is also known as CMSES. The &quot;Chief Minister&#39;s Self Employment Scheme&quot; was launched by the Department of Personnel, and Reforms, Training, Public Grievances, Government of Sikkim. The scheme aims to provide loan to unemployed youth who belong below the poverty line. The Chief Minister&#39;s Self Employment Scheme shall be a link program for all those unemployed youth who are trained in the Constituency wise Livelihood schools across the State, irrespective of their educational qualification and age to start up self-employment ventures in business, service and industrial activities. The scheme targets beneficiaries such as Individual. It is specifically implemented in Sikkim. Additionally, the nodal department is Department Of Personnel, Administrative Reforms, Training & Public Grievances.

The scheme provides the following benefits: Loans up to ₹3,00,000/per individual.
Loans are interestfree for 2 years, followed by a 6% simple interest rate.



Note: In case of the death of a loan recipient, the coapplicant shall be liable for a refund of the outstanding loan. The coapplicant is liable for a refund of only the principal amount to be paid within a period not exceeding one year.

Eligibility criteria include: The applicant should be unemployed. 
The applicant&#39;s age should be between 22 to 35 years. 
The applicant should have passed the 10th class.
The applicant&#39;s family annual income should not exceed ₹2,50,000/. 
Only one member per family shall be considered for the benefit, except in the case of Below Poverty Line (BPL) families. The application process is as follows: Step 1: The interested applicant should visit (during office hours) the Sikkim Industrial Development &amp; Investment Corporation and request a hard copy of the prescribed format of the application form from the staff exclusively entrusted to issue and collect filledin applications.
Step 2: In the application form, fill in all the mandatory fields, and attach copies of all the mandatory documents (selfattest, if required).
Step 3: Submit the duly filled and signed application form along with the documents to the Sikkim Industrial Development &amp; Investment Corporation.
Step 4: Request a receipt or acknowledgment from the Sikkim Industrial Development &amp; Investment Corporation to whom the application has been submitted. Ensure that the receipt contains essential details such as the date and time of submission, and a unique identification number (if applicable). For more information, please refer to: Guidelines: https://sidico.in/wp-content/uploads/2021/10/DocScanner-29-Oct-2021-1.26-pm.pdf Tags associated with the scheme include: BPL, Empowerment, Loan, Unemployed.