The name of this welfare scheme is Persons With Disabilities Scheme In Colleges: Financial Assistance To Visually Challenged Teachers. It is also known as Favct. The Scheme has been formulated to help visually challenged permanent teachers to pursue teaching and research with the help of a Reader and by using teaching and learning aids by way of providing Reader’s Allowance and funds for the purchase of Braille books, recorded materials, etc. 


OBJECTIVE 
To provide a facility to help visually challenged permanent teachers to achieve self-dependence by using various aids for teaching, learning, and research. The scheme targets beneficiaries such as Individual. Additionally, the nodal ministry is Ministry Of Social Justice and Empowerment and the nodal department is Department Of Empowerment Of Persons With Disabilities.

The scheme provides the following benefits: Allowance to visually challenged permanent teachers will be Rs.36000/p.a. The amount is to be utilized for the following purposes: 

Payment to Reader 
Purchase of Braille Books/ Material 
Purchase of recorded materials 
Any other related/ required material/equipment for research, teaching, and learning. 

The amount payable to Reader shall not exceed Rs.50/per hour. The College shall reimburse the amount to visually challenged teachers on receipt of the actual amount received by the Reader and actual expenditure incurred by the visually challenged teacher subject to a maximum of Rs.36000/per annum. Bills, in original, will be required to be submitted by the teacher to the college. However, these are not required to be submitted to the UGC. The scheme will end with the Plan period.

Eligibility criteria include: All the visually challenged teachers who are working in colleges in India, which are included under Sections 2(f) and 12B of the UGC Act, are covered under the scheme. The application process is as follows: PROCEDURE FOR APPLYING 
Step 1: Go to the  Prescribed Format (Page 09) For Getting Financial Assistance Towards Visually Handicapped Teachers Of College.
Step 2: Fill out all the details.
Step 3:The proposal may be sent directly to the respective Regional Offices of the UGC along with the proposal for the Twelfth Plan showing a consolidated list of all the visually challenged teachers in the Institute including selffinancing colleges covered under 12(B) of the UGC Act, 1956 are eligible to receive the grant. 


PROCEDURE FOR APPROVAL BY THE UGC 
The UGC would analyze and approve the proposal at its own level. Once the proposal is approved, the first installment of the admissible grant will be released by the UGC. 


RELEASE OF GRANT BY THE UGC
The first installment will be released with the letter of approval. However, subsequent installments would be paid on receipt of the Utilization Certificate of the previous grant together with the Statement of Expenditure incurred in the previous year. Details pertaining to visually challenged teachers be appended with it. 


PROFORMA FOR SUBMITTING THE PROPOSAL 
The Colleges are requested to submit their proposal in the prescribed format only. For more information, please refer to: Guideline: https://www.ugc.gov.in/pdfnews/1112642_Person-with-Disability-guidelines.pdf Tags associated with the scheme include: Education, Higher Education, Learning, Persons With Diablities, Teachers.