The name of this welfare scheme is GITANJALI HOUSING SCHEME. It is also known as GITANJALI HOUSING. Name of the scheme:	Gitanjali Housing Scheme, West Bengal
Department:	West Bengal Housing Department
Purpose:	To provide housing for homeless people in West Bengal.
Application process:	Offline
Official website:	https://wbhousing.gov.in/


Intending to provide proper shelters, free of cost, to the poor, the Government in Housing Department has laid proper focus on the construction of houses for the Economically Weaker Section of people.  This scheme is being implemented in the rural and non-Municipal urban areas in coordination with seven other Government Departments under the name of ‘Gitanjali’ and ‘Amar Thikana’. 
The Departments executing the scheme ‘Gitanjali’ are:
a) Fisheries Department
b) Backward Classes Welfare Department
c) Minority Affairs &amp; Madrasah Education Department
d) Forest Department
e) Sundarban Affairs Department and
f) Paschimanchal Unnayan Affairs Department.


The Gitanjali Housing Scheme has two significant parts. One is the housing Scheme for the urban population and the other is the housing scheme for the rural population. The state government of West Bengal will build a shelter for the homeless people in the city.


The objective of the scheme is to provide proper shelter to the economically weaker section of society as well as to create additional employment opportunities for construction workers etc. The cost of such dwelling units for new construction on beneficiary’s land in rural areas varies across the span and terrain of the state as follows owing to different soil and climatic conditions:
(a)  Rs. 1.67 lahks for beneficiaries, in general, residing in Rural areas of plains;
(b) Rs.  1.23 lakh for fishermen residing in non-coastal areas to be implemented by the Fisheries Department;
(c) Rs. 1.94 lahks for beneficiaries residing in the forest fringe areas of Sunderbans (to be implemented by Forest Department), and, for beneficiaries residing in other non-forest Coastal areas to be implemented by Sundarban Affairs Department &amp; Fisheries Department;
(d) Rs.  2.51 lakhs for beneficiaries residing within the forest fringe areas and forest villages in hill areas of Darjeeling district to be implemented by the Forest Department;
(e) Rs. 3 lahks within the forest villages of Jalpaiguri district to be implemented by the Forest Department.


The cost of such dwelling units for new construction in Non-Municipal Semi-Urban areas is as follows:               
                (i)      Rs. 1.67 lakh - for single–storied building on beneficiary’s land;
                (ii)      Rs. 3.30 lakh – for multi-Storied building on the own land of implementing Government agencies or on Government land. 



1. Construction of housing complexes in cluster approach is being explored for the EWS people in suitable areas dove-tailing with the programme ‘Nija Griha Nija Bhumi’ launched by L&amp;LR Department.
1. Panchayat and Rural Development Department are implementing the scheme ‘Amar Thikana’ at a unit cost of Rs. 45,000/- for the plain areas and Rs. 48,500/- in hills, difficult areas, and coastal areas.
1. Families with a Monthly income of Rs. 6000/- or less will be benefitted under the scheme.



Within this scheme, The State Government is providing Rs. 70 thousand per house in the plain area and Rs. 75 thousand per house in the Hill area and also in the Sundarban area under the project. Through the District Magistrate, 70% will be deposited as the first installment to the Bank account of the beneficiary and the residue 30% will be deposited as the second installment. To get the advantage the prospective beneficiary only should have hassle-free land in his name.


Who can apply: Homeless but owners of land and having monthly income below Rs. 6000/-, may apply under this project. In short, every poor of the state and especially those who are homeless due to flood or caving in of the embankment may apply. The scheme targets beneficiaries such as All. It is specifically implemented in West Bengal. The implementing agency is HOUSING DEPARTMENT. Additionally, the nodal department is Housing Department.

It falls under the categories: Housing & Shelter.

Eligibility criteria include: Homeless people living in the city who are citizens of West Bengal can come under this scheme.
People who have become homeless due to floods or other natural calamities will be considered eligible for the Gitanjali Housing Scheme.


Category of Beneficiaries:
a) Poor People in Rural and Urban areas.
b) Poor People in Erosion/ Flood/ Other calamity affected/ Disaster prone areas.
c) Poor People affected by Government Projects (As part of rehabilitation measures).


Income Criterion:
People having a family income of Rs. 6000/per month or less are eligible. People on the BPL list will get priority.


Extent of application of the scheme:
The Scheme applies to all over the state of West Bengal including Rural and Urban areas. For more information, please refer to: HOUSING DEPARTMENT WEBSITE: https://wbhousing.gov.in/pages/display/7-scheme Memorandum: https://www.wbhousing.gov.in/files/GITANJALI%20HOUSING%20SCHEME.pdf Tags associated with the scheme include: Affordable Homes Under GITANJALI HOUSING SCHEME, Housing For Low-income Families, Residential Scheme For The Needy, West Bengal Housing Infrastructure Development Corporation.