The name of this welfare scheme is Mukhyamantri Kisaan Kalyaan Yojana. It is also known as MKKY. Mukhyamantri Kisan Kalyan Yojana has been started by the Government of Madhya Pradesh for all the poor farmers of MP. The objective of this important scheme is to improve the economic condition of the farmers and provide them sufficient amount for farming. Many times farmers need money to maintain farming, for which Kisan Kalyan Yojana has been started.
Chief Minister Kisan Kalyan Yojana is to fulfill the concept of making agriculture a profitable business, to use advanced technology for agriculture, to fulfill the objective of increasing the income of farmers and to make the farmers of the state self-reliant. The scheme targets beneficiaries such as Individual. It is specifically implemented in Madhya Pradesh. Additionally, the nodal department is Revenue Department.

The scheme provides the following benefits: Farmers will be given Rs 4,000/annually in two installments of Rs 2,000 each.

Eligibility criteria include: Applicants must be a permanent resident of Madhya Pradesh.
Applicants must be a farmer.
The applicant should be registered under PM Kisan Samman Nidhi Yojana. 
Applicant should have cultivable land in which they are doing farming.
All Institutional Land holders along with other farmer families which belong to one or more of the following categories are not eligible.

  Former and present holders of constitutional posts
  Former and present Ministers/ State Ministers and former/present Members of LokSabha / RajyaSabha / State Legislative Assemblies/ State Legislative Councils,former and present Mayors of Municipal Corporations, former and present Chairpersons of District Panchayats.
  All serving or retired officers and employees of Central/ State Government Ministries /Offices/Departments and its field units Central or State PSEs and Attached offices /Autonomous Institutions under Government as well as regular employees of the Local Bodies (Excluding Multi Tasking Staff /Class IV/Group D employees)
  All superannuated/retired pensioners whose monthly pension is Rs. 10,000/or more (Excluding Multi Tasking Staff / Class IV/Group D employees) of above category
  All Persons who paid Income Tax in last assessment year
  Professionals like Doctors, Engineers, Lawyers, Chartered Accountants, and Architects registered with Professional bodies and carrying out profession by undertaking practice

Applicant must be a poor farmers so that they can get financial assistance for farming. The application process is as follows: Applicants have to download the application form from the official website or from here. Applicants can also get the application form from the village Patwari office in their area.
Fill out the application form.
Attach the necessary documents
Submit the application form and all the necessary documents to the Village Patwari.
Village Patwari will get the application approved and applicants can receive the confirmed through the given mobile number and email id. For more information, please refer to: Guidelines: https://cmhelpline.mp.gov.in/Schmedetail.aspx?Schemeid=606