The name of this welfare scheme is Indira Gandhi National Vridhavastha Pension Yojana. It is also known as IGNVPY. Indira Gandhi National Vridhavastha Pension Yojana, Under the Department of Social Justice and Empowerment of Persons with Disabilities Government of Madhya Pradesh, provides financial support to the citizens whose families live below the poverty line. The scheme targets beneficiaries such as Individual. It is specifically implemented in Madhya Pradesh. Additionally, the nodal department is Department of Social Justice and Empowerment of Persons with Disabilities.

The scheme provides the following benefits: > Pension amount: ₹ 600/per month.

Eligibility criteria include: The applicant should be a native of Madhya Pradesh.
The age of the applicant (male or female) is 60 years or more.
The applicant should belong to a family living below the poverty line as per the criteria set by the Government of India. The application process is as follows: Step 1: The applicant can apply in the prescribed format along with the necessary documents for the scheme in the office of the designated officer, Gram Panchayat, or Public Service Center.
Step 2: Offline On submitting the complete application, the applicant will be compulsorily given an acknowledgment by the office
Step 3: the documents submitted along with the application will be scrutinized by the District Panchayat/ Gram Panchayat/ Urban Body/ Ward Office. 
Step 4: After investigation, if the documents are not found correct, according to the rules, the application will be canceled along with the reason and information will be given to the applicant in writing and the rejection order will be given. Will be maintained in the record. 
Step 5:  After investigation, if the documents are found correct, the pension case will be approved according to the rules.
Step 6: Once the pension is approved, the beneficiary&#39;s name will be added to the pension proposal in the said month by the District Panchayat/Gram Panchayat/Urban Body/Ward Office, and the approved order will be maintained in the record. 
Step 7: The amount will be deposited directly into the bank savings account of the beneficiary every month from the said month through a single click by the Directorate. Step 1 Go to the Samajik Suraksha portal.
Step 2: Click on Samajik Suraksha pension avm arthik sahayata yojanaen.
Step 3: Now click on the left on your screen Pension Yojana hetu online aavedan.
Step 4: Fill in the required details and submit. For more information, please refer to: Guidelines: https://socialsecurity.mp.gov.in/Scheme/SSOAP.aspx Apply Portal: https://socialsecurity.mp.gov.in/Home.aspx Details: https://cmhelpline.mp.gov.in/KnowYourEntitleDetail.aspx?Schemeid=356 Tags associated with the scheme include: Below Poverty Line, Financial Assistance, Old Age, Pension.