The name of this welfare scheme is Team Production Award. It is also known as TPA. The &quot;Team Production Award&quot; scheme was launched by the Handlooms, Handicrafts, Textiles, &amp; Khadi Department, Government of Tamil Nadu. This award is being given to artisans for handicraft items to be made by a team. This award will be given to 3 groups every year with a cash prize of ₹40,000/- 4 grams gold medal, Thamirapattiram and a certificate. The applicant applies through poompucar sales and manufacturing plant managers. The scheme targets beneficiaries such as Individual. It is specifically implemented in Tamil Nadu. Additionally, the nodal department is Handlooms, Handicrafts, Textiles and Khadi Department.

The scheme provides the following benefits: Cash Prize of ₹40,000/.
4 gm Gold Medal.
One Thamirapattiram. 
Certificate.

Eligibility criteria include: The group should be from Tamil Nadu.
The group applying for a group production award must have more than two artisans as members.
The group should be Tamil Nadu manufacturers of handicrafts.
The craft submitted for this award should be produced by the group. The application process is as follows: Advertisements are released in June every year.
Step 1: The interested applicant should take print of the prescribed format of the application form.
Step 2: In the application form, fill in all the mandatory fields, paste the passportsized photograph (signed across, if required), and attach copies of all the mandatory documents (selfattest, if required).
Step 3: Submit the duly filled and signed application form along with the documents (during office hours) to the Head Office only through Poompucar Sales and Manufacturing Plant Managers.
Step 4: Request a receipt or acknowledgment from the concerned authority to whom the application has been submitted. Ensure that the receipt contains essential details such as the date and time of submission, and a unique identification number (if applicable).
NOTE: In this application, each member should mention his name and member&#39;s work in the production separately. For more information, please refer to: Citizen Charter (2021): https://cms.tn.gov.in/sites/default/files/documents/tnhdcl_e_cc_2015_16.pdf Application Form: https://poompuhar.com/tnhdc/downloads/16785206091258299061.pdf Tags associated with the scheme include: Award, Group, Handicraft, Prize, Production.