The name of this welfare scheme is Grant of Fuel Subsidy to Differently Abled Persons Who Are Owning Motorised Vehicles. It is also known as GFSDAPOMV. The scheme “Grant of Fuel Subsidy to Differently Abled Persons Who Are Owning Motorised Vehicles” by the Department of Social Welfare, Government of Puducherry was introduced to provide a subsidy of upto 50 % of the cost of fuel to persons with disability who own motorised vehicles. The selection is periodical and depends on the availability of funds. The scheme targets beneficiaries such as Individual. It is specifically implemented in Puducherry. Additionally, the nodal department is Social Welfare Department, Puducherry.

The scheme provides the following benefits: 50 % of the cost of fuel subject to a maximum of 15 litres for vehicles of less than 2 Horsepower.
50 % of the cost of fuel subject to a maximum of 25 litres for vehicles of equal to or more than 2 Horsepower.

Eligibility criteria include: The applicant should be a Native/Resident of the Union Territory of Puducherry for at least 5 years.
The applicant should have an annual income not exceeding ₹75,000/per annum.
The vehicle should be registered in the name of the applicant.
The distance between the residence of the applicant and the duty point should be greater than 6km.
The disability of the applicant should be 40% and above.
The applicant should not be should not be in receipt of transport allowance for conveyance from the Department or from any other source. The application process is as follows: Step 1: The interested applicant should visit (during office hours) the Office/ SubOffice of the Department of Social Welfare, and request the hard copy of the prescribed format of the application form from the authorities given below:

Puducherry: The Deputy Director, Differently Abled Section, Directorate of Social Welfare. Karaikal: The Assistant Director, Social Welfare Department (Sub Office).Mahe / Yanam: The Welfare Officer (i\c), Social Welfare Department (Sub Office). 
OR
The interested applicant should take print of the prescribed format of the application form.
Step 2: In the application form, fill in all the mandatory fields, paste the passportsized photograph (signed across, if required), and attach copies of all the mandatory documents (selfattest, if required).
Step 3: Submit the duly filled and signed application form along with the documents to the Deputy Director (Women Development) or the Child Development Project Officer (depending on the location), at least 30 days before the proposed marriage date.
Step 4: Request a receipt or acknowledgement from the concerned authority to whom the application has been submitted. Ensure that the receipt contains essential details such as the date and time of submission, and a unique identification number (if applicable). Step 1: Visit the Official Website of the eDistrict Portal of the Government of Puducherry.
Step 2: At the top right corner of the home page, click &quot;Login&quot;. In the login screen, click &quot;Register a New Membership&quot;.
Step 3: On the Registration Page, fill in all the mandatory fields: Username, Password, Confirm Password, Personal Details (Full Name, First Name, Email Address, Address, Current Address, Gender, Date of Birth, Mobile Number). Agree to the declaration. Fill in the Captcha Code, and click &quot;Signup&quot;.
Step 4: Visit the Official Website of the eDistrict Portal of the Government of Puducherry.
Step 5: At the top right corner of the home page, click &quot;Login&quot;. In the login screen, provide your Username and Password, fill in the Captcha Code, and click &quot;Sign In&quot;.
Step 6: On the next screen, a list of schemes by the Government of Puducherry will be displayed Departmentwise.
Step 7: Click on the scheme you wish to apply for. You will be taken to its online application form.
Step 8: In the application form, fill in all the mandatory fields (marked with a red asterisk) and upload all the mandatory documents (selfattest if required). 
Step 9: Tick the declaration stating &quot;I hereby declare that the abovementioned details are true and correct as per the best of my Knowledge&quot;. Submit the application and note the application number for tracking your application. The application number will also be received on your Registered Mobile Number / Registered Email ID.
Track Your Application here
 Access the User Manual for Online Application here For more information, please refer to: Guidelines: https://socwelfare.py.gov.in/grant-fuel-subsidy-differently-abled-persons-who-are-owning-motorised-vehicles Citizen's Charter: https://socwelfare.py.gov.in/sites/default/files/citizen-charter.pdf Application Form: https://socwelfare.py.gov.in/sites/default/files/fuel-subsidy-differently-abled-persons.pdf Contact Us: https://socwelfare.py.gov.in/contact-us Sub Offices: https://socwelfare.py.gov.in/sub--office-social-welfare-department Grievance Redressal: https://pgportal.gov.in/ Track Your Application: https://edistrict.py.gov.in/User/TrackApplication.aspx Tags associated with the scheme include: Disability, Fuel, Motor, PwD, Subsidy, Vehicle.