The name of this welfare scheme is Gambhir Bimari Sahayata Yojana. It is also known as GBSY. The Uttar Pradesh Gambhir Bimari Sahayata Yojana is a government-funded scheme that provides financial assistance to such construction workers who are not covered under &quot;Ayushman Bharat Jan Arogya Yojana&quot; and &quot;Pradhan Mantri Jan Aarogya Yojana&quot; in the UP Building and Other Construction Workers Welfare Board.


Benefits will be provided to the family member of the construction worker in case of illness, for treatment in any government hospital or autonomous hospital of the Government of India or Uttar Pradesh Government or such hospitals which have been empanelled by the National Health Authority of Ayushman Bharat Pradhan Mantri Jan Arogya Yojana or SACHIS (State Agency For Comprehensive Health Insurance and Integrated Services) functioning at the state level. The scheme targets beneficiaries such as Individual. It is specifically implemented in Uttar Pradesh. Additionally, the nodal department is Labour Department, Uttar Pradesh.

The scheme provides the following benefits: Full reimbursement of an amount equivalent to the benefit payable under Ayushman Bharat Scheme on treatment in government/autonomous hospitals or SACHIS empaneled hospitals.
In case of medical/surgical treatment, advance amount can also be paid to the hospital after the hospital gives the estimate for the treatment.
No maximum amount is fixed.
The scheme covers the cost of treatment for a variety of serious illnesses, including:

  Heart surgery.
  Kidney transplant.
  Liver transplant.
  Brain surgery.
  Changing the knees of the legs.
  Cancer treatment.
  HIV AIDS disease.
  Eye surgery.
  Stone Surgery.
  Appendix surgery.
  Hydrocele surgery.
  Surgery for breast cancer in women.
  Surgery for cervical cancer.

Also cover the diseases which comes under Ayushman Bharat Pradhanmantri Janarogya Yojana and Mukhyamantri Janarogya Yojana.

Eligibility criteria include: Applicant must be registered workers under labor department. 
Beneficiary can not get the similar type of government scheme benefits like Pradhan Mantri JanArogya Yojana and Chief Minister JanArogya Yojana.
Only below family members are covered

  Self.
  Depended parents.
  Spouse (Husband/Wife).
  Daughter.
  Son (only if below 21 years of age) The application process is as follows: > How to get register and apply for the scheme


Applicant must visit the below offices

  Nearest labor office.
  Tehsildar of the concerned tehsil.
  Block Development Officer of the concerned development block.

Get the application form and fill out the completely.
Attach required documents in the prescribed format.
Submit the application form in the same office. > How to get register


Applicant must visit the official web portal.Provide the required details

  Enter Aadhaar Number.
  Choose Circle.
  Choose District.
  Mobile Number.

Submit the registration request.



> How to submit the application


Applicant must visit the official web portal.Provide the required details

  Choose Circle.
  Choose Scheme name.
  Enter Registered Aadhaar Number.
  Enter Registered Mobile Number.

Click on &quot;Open Application form&quot;.
Provide the required details in application form.

  Applicant/Worker details
  Child details
  Bank Account Details
  Submit the required documents

Submit the application request. For more information, please refer to: Guidelines: https://www.upbocw.in/pdf/adhisuchna/gambhir_bimari_29_01_2024.pdf Details: https://www.upbocw.in/StaticPages/schemes.aspx#tab10 Tags associated with the scheme include: Construction Workers, Financial Assistance, Health, Serious Illness.