The name of this welfare scheme is Chief Minister Divyangjan Empowerment Scheme (Sambal). It is also known as CMDES. The main objective of this scheme is to provide quick benefits for the welfare of the disabled to all the schemes of the disability sector run by the state government. To increase awareness towards the disabled, to ensure their rights while empowering them physically, socially, educationally and economically.
For the operation of Sambal, a provision of 100 percent amount is made by the state government. Similarly, for the participation of the state in the schemes of the National Trust, the necessary supplementary grant amount is given by the state government under this scheme to the beneficiaries. The scheme targets beneficiaries such as Individual. It is specifically implemented in Bihar. Additionally, the nodal department is Social Welfare Department.

The scheme provides the following benefits: A loan of up to Rs.00 lakh will be given for selfemployment. 
The scholarship will be given for teaching in special schools, the rate of which will be less than the rate given to nondisabled people. 
In very special cases, the rate of grant and state grant in schemes of National Trust will be payable according to the needs of the scheme and the specific beneficiary.

Eligibility criteria include: The age limit will be 1860 years for selfemployment loans and more than 5 years for artificial limbs and equipment.
In very special cases, a grant will be payable in all cases covered by multiple disabilities and judgments and there will be no restriction on the limit of income, age etc.
The age limit of the student for the special school will be 618 years.
For shelter home (Ashiyana / Saket), the minimum age limit of the beneficiary (male/female) will be 18 years. The application process is as follows: Visit the official website.    Registration is mandatory for efilling up the form.   Use login credentials to log in.
   Only eligible candidates as per guidelines/advertisement should fill up the form with Personal Details.
   Upload Photo &amp;amp; Signature.
   Upload Documents.
   Finalise and submit application. For more information, please refer to: Guidelines: https://state.bihar.gov.in/cache/39/Chhatra%20Yojna/Mukhyamantri%20Divayangjan%20Shashaktikaran%20Chatra%20Yojna/SAMBAL.pdf Registration: https://online.bih.nic.in/swf/swftc/ Tags associated with the scheme include: Benefits, Disability, Empowerment, Financial Assistance.