The name of this welfare scheme is Assistance for Purchase of Bi-cycle (O.B.O.C.W.W.B). It is also known as AFPOBBOCWWB. The “Assistance for Purchase of Bi-cycle” scheme by the Building and Other Construction Workers Welfare Board, Labour Department, Odisha, is a welfare scheme for the registered workers of the board. Under this scheme, the Board shall make one time reimbursement to each beneficiary who is registered with the Board for purchasing Bi-cycle on production of original bill/ voucher. The scheme targets beneficiaries such as Individual. It is specifically implemented in Odisha. Additionally, the nodal department is Labour and Employees State Insurance Department.

The scheme provides the following benefits: Quantum of Assistance: ₹4,000/.
&lt;br&gt;

Eligibility criteria include: &gt; For Registration as a Building/ Construction Worker:


  The applicant should be a resident of Odisha.
  The applicant should be a Building/ Construction Worker.
  The applicant should be between 18 and 60 years.
  The applicant should have engaged in building and construction work for at least 90 days in a given year.
  The applicant should not be a member of any other Welfare Fund established under any law.

&gt; For the Application of the Welfare Scheme:


  The applicant should be a registered member of the Odisha Building and Other Construction Workers Welfare Board.
  The applicant should have deposited uptodate annual contributions for three years to the Board. The application process is as follows: &gt; Registration Process as a Building/ Construction Worker:

Step 1: Visit the official website of the Odisha BOCWW Board.
Step 2: Click on “One Time Registration” on the top right side of the page.
Step 3: Click on the Declaration box and then on the “Proceed” button.
Step 4: In the next window fill in all the required details carefully and click on “Proceed”.
Step 5: Enter the received OTP and click on “Submit”.
Step 6: Your account will be successfully created and a Username will be displayed (Keep the Username for future references).
&gt; Application Process of the Welfare Scheme:

Step 1: Visit the Applicant Login page of the Odisha BOCWW Board.
Step 2: Enter your Username, OTP and fill in the captcha then click on “Sign In”.
Step 3: In the next window, fill in your General Details, Address Details, Family &amp;amp; Nominee Details, Details of the establishment(s) where the applicant worked during the last one year, Bank Details etc. and then click on “Submit”.
Step 4: Now in the Menu bar section, click on “Benefit”. From the list select the concerned benefit you want to apply.
Step 5: Fill in all the mandatory details carefully and click on “Submit” to complete the application process.
&gt; Check Your Application Status: Registered workers can check their application status through visiting this link upon entering their Application Tracking Number.

&gt; Pay Annual Contribution: Registered workers can pay the Annual Contribution through visiting this link upon entering their Registration Number. &gt; Registration Process as a Building/ Construction Worker:

Step 1: To register as a beneficiary under the BOCW Welfare Board, an applicant worker should download FormXXVII and attach all the mandatory documents (selfattested, if required).
Step 2: Application shall be submitted to the District Labour Officers (D.L.O)/ Asst. Labour Officers/ Rural Labour Inspectors of your area.
&gt; Application Process of the Welfare Scheme:

Step 1: A registered worker should download FormXLIV and attach all the mandatory documents (selfattested, if required).
Step 2: Application shall be submitted to the District Labour Officers (D.L.O)/ Asst. Labour Officers/ Rural Labour Inspectors of your area. For more information, please refer to: Guidelines: https://labdirodisha.gov.in/?q=node/15%27%3B Guidelines: https://bocboard.labdirodisha.gov.in/Building/homecontent/standard_procedure/Ltr%20No.%201596%20dtd.%2023.10.2013.pdf Tags associated with the scheme include: Bi-cycle, Building Worker, Construction Worker, Labour.