The name of this welfare scheme is Griha Aadhar Scheme. It is also known as GAS. The &quot;Griha Aadhar Scheme&quot; is one of the flagship programmes of the Department of Women &amp; Child Development, Government of Goa. The objective of the scheme is to address the problem of spiralling prices and to provide support to the housewives/homemakers from the middle, lower middle and poor sections of society, to maintain a reasonable standard of living for their families. Under this scheme, a monthly disbursement of an amount as prescribed under the scheme will be provided every month directly to the hands of the housewives/homemakers to achieve the objective. The scheme targets beneficiaries such as Individual. It is specifically implemented in Goa. Additionally, the nodal department is Women and Child Development Department.

The scheme provides the following benefits: Financial Assistance of ₹ 1,500/per month.

Eligibility criteria include: The applicant should be a married woman.
The applicant should be above the age of 18 years.
The applicant should be a resident of Goa for the last fifteen years.
The gross income of the husband and wife, taken together should not exceed ₹ 3,00,000/per annum.
A widow with a minor child who is in receipt of benefits under the Dayanand Social Security Scheme (DSSS) rolled out by the Directorate of Social Welfare, Government of Goa shall be eligible for benefits under this scheme. The application process is as follows: Step 1: In the application form, fill in all the mandatory fields, paste the passportsized photograph (signed across), and attach copies of all the mandatory documents (selfattest if required).
Step 2:The applicant should send the application to:
Director, Directorate of Women And Child Development, PanajiGoa, 2nd floor, Old Education Building, 18th June Road, Altinho, Panaji, Goa 403  For more information, please refer to: Guidelines: https://www.goa.gov.in/wp-content/uploads/2021/01/Laadli-Laxmi-Scheme-Griha-Aadhar-Schme-Amendment-Notification.pdf Tags associated with the scheme include: Financial Assistance, Marriage, Social Welfare.