The name of this welfare scheme is Yuva Srujan Puraskar (Navsarjan Chetana Puraskar). It is also known as YSPNCP. The scheme &quot;Yuva Srujan Puraskar (Navsarjan Chetana Puraskar)&quot; by the Directorate of Art and Culture, Government of Goa is designed to honour the young Goan individuals who have excelled in the field of Art and culture in Goa. The scheme intends to give recognition to young artists par excellence for their outstanding achievements and for their extraordinary contribution to the field of Art and culture.


> Objectives


1. To honour the young artists for their contribution towards the field of Goan Art and culture. 
1. To felicitate the young artists par excellence for their outstanding achievement in the respective field of their art. 
1. To recognize, encourage and identify the young artists as Youth Artists of the State. The scheme targets beneficiaries such as Individual. It is specifically implemented in Goa. Additionally, the nodal department is Art, Culture and Museums Department.

The scheme provides the following benefits: A memento, certificate of appreciation and financial purse to the extent of ₹ 25,000/per individual.Every year a maximum of 6 persons in the fields of Music/Dance, Drama/Tiatr, Folk Art, Photography/Painting, Craft, Sculpture, Bhajan/Kirtan, Literature, and Film shall be considered.

Eligibility criteria include: The applicant should be an individual artist.
The age of the applicant should be between 25 and 40 years. Only in exceptional cases, the minimum &amp; maximum age could be relaxed by upto 5 years.
The applicant should have given extraordinary contributions in the field of Art and culture at large in his/ her respective field of art in specific.
The applicant should have contributed to his/her respective field of art in Goa for a minimum 5 years out of his/her career as a 
practising artist.
No award will be presented posthumously under this scheme. However, during the selection process if the death of any artist occurs after the recommendation of his name then the Task Force Committee may consider his name for the award, in such circumstances, the award will be presented posthumously. The application process is as follows: Step 1: The interested applicant should visit the Directorate Of Art &amp; Culture, Government of Goa, 5th Floor, Shram Shakti Bhavan, Panaji, Patto, Panaji, Goa 403001
Step 2: Take a print of the proforma of the application form of the respective scheme, or request a hard copy from the concerned authority.
Step 3: In the application form, fill in all the mandatory fields, paste the passportsized photograph (signed across), and attach copies of all the mandatory documents (selfattest if required).
Step 4: Submit the duly filled and signed application form along with the documents to the ACOIII, Directorate of Art &amp; Culture, Phone: 08322404606, Email: aco6dac.goa@nic.in.


> Application Deadline

Within 30 days from the date of advertisement in the Newspaper. For more information, please refer to: Citizen's Charter: https://www.goa.gov.in/wp-content/uploads/2022/06/Chitizen-Charter-2022-2023-art-and-culture.pdf Application Form: https://artandculture.goa.gov.in/sites/default/files/Yuva%20Srujan%20Puraskar%202023-24.pdf Tags associated with the scheme include: Achievement, Artist, Award, Culture, Financial Assistance.