The name of this welfare scheme is National Overseas Scholarship For Scheduled Caste Etc. Candidates. It is also known as NOS-SC. A scholarship scheme by Ministry of Social Justice &amp; Empowerment for regular, full-time students from Scheduled Castes, Denotified Nomadic and Semi Nomadic Tribes, Landless Agricultural Labourers and Traditional Artisans; to obtain higher education viz., Master degree or Ph.D courses by studying abroad in Institutions/Universities accredited by the Government/authorized body of that country in any field of study. The scheme targets beneficiaries such as Individual. The implementing agency is National Scholarship Portal (NSP). Additionally, the nodal ministry is Ministry Of Social Justice and Empowerment.

It falls under the categories: Education & Learning, Social welfare & Empowerment.

Eligibility criteria include: The applicant must be a student belonging to a Scheduled Caste, Denotified Nomadic, Semi Nomadic Tribe, Landless Agricultural Labourer, or a Traditional Artisan.
The applicant must have been admitted to or received an unconditional offer of admission for pursuing a master&#39;s / Ph.D. from an institute/university located abroad.
The institute/university of the applicant must be accredited by the Government/authorized body of that country.
The applicant must have secured at least 60% marks or equivalent grade in the qualifying examination (In the case of Ph.D. courses, the qualifying exam is a Master’s Degree; In the case of a Master’s Degree, the qualifying exam is a Bachelor&#39;s Degree)
The total income of the family of the applicant (from all sources) is less than or equal to ₹ 8 lakh per annum.
Two or more of the applicant&#39;s siblings must not be already availing of this scholarship.
In case a student has completed a Bachelor of Engineering after completing a Diploma (Lateral Entry to 2nd year), the percentage of marks obtained in Bachelor&#39;s degree will be taken into account.
30% of the awards for each year shall be earmarked for women candidates. However, in case, adequate women candidates are not available as per the stipulations of the scheme, then the unutilized slots will be utilized by selecting suitable male candidates.
There are 115 slots for Scheduled Castes, 6 slots for Denotified, Nomadic, and SemiNomadic Tribes, and 4 slots for Landless Agricultural Labourers and Traditional Artisans. For more information, please refer to: Guidelines: https://nosmsje.gov.in/docs/nosGuidelines2022-23.pdf Tags associated with the scheme include: Degree, International Education, PhD, Post-Graduation, Scheduled Caste, Scholarship, Student, Tuition Fees.