The name of this welfare scheme is Floriculture Development Scheme. It is also known as FCDS. The scheme “Floriculture Development Scheme” was launched by the Department of Agriculture &amp;amp; Farmers’ Welfare, Government of Meghalaya to motivate the farmers to take up floriculture (traditional and non-traditional flowers) as a commercial venture through the distribution of planting materials and other inputs. The scheme targets beneficiaries such as Individual. It is specifically implemented in Meghalaya. The implementing agency is Department Of Agriculture & Farmers’ Welfare, Government Of Meghalaya. Additionally, the nodal department is Agriculture Department.

The scheme provides the following benefits: > Pattern of Assistance:


  By providing good quality flower planting material at 50% subsidy and low cost polyhouse free of cost with a minimum of 100sqm/unit area.

&gt; Type of Assistance:


  To motivate farmers by cultivating low volume highvalue crops to increase economic income. Under this aspect, poly house and good quality flower planting materials including organic fertilizers, micronutrients, and organicbased and P.P chemicals and drip irrigation are provided.

Eligibility criteria include: The applicant/farmer should be a permanent resident of Meghalaya.
   The applicant should be a bonafide farmer engaged in agriculture. The application process is as follows: Application Process:
Step 01: The eligible bonafide farmer can apply/write an application on plain paper.
Step 02: Along with the application, attach copies of all the mandatory documents (selfattest, if required).
Step 03: Submit the duly filled and signed application along with the documents at your nearest office of the Horticulture Development Officer of a CD Block/ Horticulture Circle.
Mode of Selection of Beneficiary(s):
Bonafide farmers having a minimum area of 2 (hectares) willing to invest for future expansion in terms of planting materials, infrastructures, etc.
Whom to Contact:
District Horticulture Officer
Horticulture Development Officer For more information, please refer to: Official Website: https://megagriculture.gov.in/PUBLIC/schemes_ShowSchemesH.aspx?schid=102 FAQs: https://megagriculture.gov.in/PUBLIC/dwd_docs/FAQONHORTICULTURESCHEMES.pdf Tags associated with the scheme include: Agriculture, Farmer, Floriculture, Flower, Horticulture, Subsidy.