The name of this welfare scheme is “Exposure Tour for the Coir Artisans” Component of the "Development of Coir" Scheme. It is also known as ETFTCACOTDOCS. The scheme “Exposure Tour For The Coir Artisans” Component of the &quot;Development of Coir&quot; Scheme by the Department of Industries and Commerce, Union Territory of Puducherry is introduced for acquiring the latest techniques and innovative ideas in various coir units located in other states, the exposure tour will be conducted for the coir artisans. The scheme targets beneficiaries such as Individual. It is specifically implemented in Puducherry. Additionally, the nodal department is Industries and Commerce Department, Puducherry.

The scheme provides the following benefits: The expenses relating to conveyance, accommodation, fees to the visiting institution, etc will be paid.
The participant will be provided ₹ 150/per person per day as Daily Allowance.

Eligibility criteria include: The applicant should be a Coir Artisan. The application process is as follows: Step 1: The interested applicant should take print of the prescribed format of the application form.
Step 2: In the application form, fill in all the mandatory fields, paste the passportsized photograph (signed across, if required), and attach copies of all the mandatory documents (selfattest, if required).
Step 3: The interested applicant should visit (on a working day, and during office hours) the Project Manager (Cottage Industries) of the District Industries Centre (Thattanchavady, Puducherry 605 009), and submit the duly filled and signed application form and the documents to the concerned authority.
Step 4: On receipt of the application, necessary entries will be made in the application receipt register and a unique number is assigned to the applicant for identifying each applicant which shall be used for all further references and also as acknowledgement for the receipt of the application. For more information, please refer to: Guidelines: https://dic.py.gov.in/development-of-coir Citizen's Charter: https://dic.py.gov.in/sites/default/files/citizencharter.pdf Application Form: https://dic.py.gov.in/application-forms-download-area Grievance Redressal: https://industry.py.gov.in/grievance-redressal-mechanism Contact Us: https://dic.py.gov.in/contact-us Tags associated with the scheme include: Accomodation, Artisan, Coir, Conveyance, Tour.