The name of this welfare scheme is Concession in Railway Travel. It is also known as CRT. The scheme &quot;Concession in Railway Travel&quot; was launched by the Department of Art and Culture, Tamil Nadu. Under the scheme, individual artists and troupes consisting of more than three artists are allowed to travel in the train on concession by the Railways. A concession certificate will be issued by the Mandram. The scheme targets beneficiaries such as Individual. It is specifically implemented in Tamil Nadu. The implementing agency is Tamil Nadu Eyal Isai Nataka Mandram. Additionally, the nodal department is Art and Culture Department.

The scheme provides the following benefits: 75% concession in Second Class Fare. 
50% concession in First Class Fare.

Eligibility criteria include: The applicant should be an individual artist or a troupe consisting of more than three artists.
The applicant should undertake the journey by train.
The purpose of the journey should be to deliver a cultural performance (public programme) in the outstation.
The distance between the place from which the cultural troupe is to start and the place of performance should be beyond 300 km as fixed by the Indian Railways. The application process is as follows: The advertisement is published in the newspapers, calling for applications by the Tamil Nadu Eyal Isai Nataka Mandram.
Step 1: The interested applicant should visit (during office hours) the office Mandram and request a hard copy of the prescribed format of the application form from the concerned staff.
Step 2: In the application form, fill in all the mandatory fields, paste the passportsized photograph (signed across, if required), and attach copies of all the mandatory documents (selfattest, if required).
Step 3: Submit the duly filled and signed application form along with the documents to the Tamil Nadu Eyal Isai Nataka Mandram. 
Step 4: Request a receipt or acknowledgement from the concerned authority to whom the application has been submitted. Ensure that the receipt contains essential details such as the date and time of submission, and a unique identification number (if applicable). For more information, please refer to: Guidelines: https://www.tn.gov.in/rti/proactive/inftour/handbook_artculture.pdf Tags associated with the scheme include: Artist, Culture, Railway, Travel.