The name of this welfare scheme is Deepawali Cash Gift Scheme (PULWS). It is also known as DCGS-PULWS. The &quot;Deepawali Cash Gift Scheme (PULWS)&quot; is a Welfare Scheme for the Unorganized Workers in Puducherry by the &quot;Puducherry Unorganised Labourers&#39; Welfare Society&quot;, Labour Department, Union Territory of Puducherry. The Society extends ₹500/- to the Unorganised Workers as a Cash Gift during the festival of Diwali. The amount is credited through Direct Benefit Transfer (DBT) into the bank account of the worker. The applications are accepted offline. The scheme targets beneficiaries such as Individual. It is specifically implemented in Puducherry. Additionally, the nodal department is Labour Department, Puducherry.

The scheme provides the following benefits: Financial Assistance of ₹500/as a Cash Gift during the festival of Diwali.
The amount is credited through Direct Benefit Transfer (DBT) into the bank account of the nominee.

Eligibility criteria include: The applicant should be a citizen of India.
The applicant should be a resident of the Union Territory of Puducherry.
The applicant should be an Unorganized Worker: Taxi and Auto Drivers, Workers Employed in Shops &amp; Catering Establishments, Carpenters, Nathaswara Vidwans, Hair Dressers, Tailors, Cycle Rickshaw Drivers, Cobblers, Washermans, Goldsmith, Blacksmith, Brass Vessel Makers, Sculptors, Loading and Unloading Workers, Tree Climbers, Pottery Workers, Coir Workers, Toddy Neera Tappers, Bullock Cart Drivers, Thatchers, Cooks, Hawkers, News Paper Vendors, Workers Engaged in Bricks and Tiles Manufacturing, One Hundred, Workers Engaged in Distribution of Liquid Petroleum Gas Cylinder, Domestic Workers, Light Music Instrument Players, Automobile Workshop Workers.
The applicant should be enrolled with the Puducherry Unorganised Labourers&#39; Welfare Society.
The applicant should be between 18 to 59 years of age.The applicant should be taking an Annual Subscription of ₹100/every year.
The applicant should be paying a Registration Fee of ₹25/. The application process is as follows: Step 1: The interested applicant should visit the Office of the Puducherry Unorganised Labourer&#39;s Welfare Society, No.1, Rue Sufferen, Puducherry, and obtain the prescribed format of the application form free of cost from the concerned authority exclusively entrusted to issue and collect filledin applications.
Step 2: In the application form, fill in all the mandatory fields, paste the passportsized photograph (signed across, if required), and attach copies of all the mandatory documents (selfattest, if required).
Step 3: The interested construction worker should submit the duly filled and signed application form and the documents to the concerned authority.
Step 4: Request a receipt or acknowledgement from the concerned authority to whom the application form has been submitted. Ensure that the receipt contains essential details such as the date and time of submission, and a unique identification number (if applicable). For more information, please refer to: Guidelines (Page No. 100): https://labour.py.gov.in/sites/default/files/citizens-charter-2020.pdf Tags associated with the scheme include: Festival, Financial Assistance, Gift, Worker.