The name of this welfare scheme is Deen Dayal Swasthya Seva Yojana. It is also known as DDSSY. To facilitate and take medical services to the next level, the State of Goa envisaged the present scheme to provide its people with quality medical care and treatment of diseases, hospitalization, and surgery through government and private hospitals. The scheme targets beneficiaries such as Family. It is specifically implemented in Goa. Additionally, the nodal department is Health Services Department.

The scheme provides the following benefits: The benefit under this scheme shall be provided on a cashless basis to the beneficiaries, up to the limit of their annual coverage, and shall be as under:

The insurance cover shall be up to ₹2,50,000/per annum for a family of three or fewer members and up to ₹4,00,000/for a family of four or more members. Under no case, the claim would exceed ₹4,00,000/annually.
The insurance benefit can be availed of individually or collectively by members of the family.
An individual is free to take higher coverage from the insurance company by paying higher premiums, without having any impact on Government policy and facilities.
The facilities for 447 procedures shall be covered under the scheme.

Eligibility criteria include: The applicant must be a resident of the state of Goa.
The applicant must have resided in Goa continuously for a minimum of five years or more. The application process is as follows: The beneficiary may approach the Empanelled Health Care Provider (EHCP) as per the list provided on the website. After consulting the doctor, if the surgery is covered under the scheme and is available at the said EHCP, the patient can approach the DDSSY Sahayak at the hospital with the card, and the Sahayak will raise a request for preauthorization with the ISA preauthorization doctor.  OrAlternatively, if the beneficiary is aware of what the procedure is, he/she can check the website to find out at which EHCP the required procedure is performed and visit the hospital of his/her choice as per the list of EHCPs empaneled for the said procedure.



> Note: Officer to be contacted: 



Sr. No.Name &amp;amp;amp;amp; address of the Nodal OfficerDesignationContact No.1Dr. Yogesh Potdar, Directorate of Health Services, Campal PanajiMedical Management &amp;amp;amp;amp; Quality Manager08322225646, Extn. 256, 74477975822Dr. Ralph Araujo, MD India Health Insurance TPA Pvt. Ltd., BF/3, 1st Floor, Campal Trade Centre, Behind Military Hospital, PanajiSr. Manager93259636913Shri. Sagar Jaiwar, Goa Electronics Ltd., Ground Floor, Shrama Shakti Bhavan, Patto Plaza, EDC Complex, PanajiAsst. Manager (IT), Goa Electronics Ltd.8411004910 Step1: Visit the official website.
Step2: By clicking on register button,  providing your email ID, mobile number, name, address, and date of birth. Complete the OTP authentication for successful registration.
Step3: After registration, log in using your credentials and verify your Aadhaar number under the user profile section.
Step4: Navigate to the Services menu and select All Services. Under DDSSY, click on Deen Dayal Swasthya Seva Yojana (DDSSY) – Renewal.
Step5: Ensure you are an active member of the DDSSY card as nonmembers are not eligible to renew the card.
Step6: Enter your DDSSY card number and search for the associated member details.
Step7: Click on Generate OTP to receive the OTP on your registered mobile number, and validate it.
Step8: If you&#39;re renewing with updates, fill in all the mandatory () fields and upload the relevant documents.
Step9: Click on Proceed to Pay and complete the payment process for the renewal.
Step10: After successful payment, make sure to note down the Acknowledgement Number for future tracking.
> Note: A confirmation message will be sent to your registered mobile number once the process is complete. For more information, please refer to: Guideline: https://www.goa.gov.in/wp-content/uploads/2020/09/Deen-Dayal-Swasthya-Seva-Yojana.pdf Register: https://goaonline.gov.in/Public/userRegistration_af Login: https://goaonline.gov.in/Public/Login Tags associated with the scheme include: Cashless, Goa, Health Coverage, Insurance.