The name of this welfare scheme is Arunachal Pradesh Entrepreneurship Challenge. It is also known as APEPC. The &amp;quot;Arunachal Pradesh Entrepreneurship Development Programme (APEDP)&amp;quot; was launched by Hon&amp;#39;ble Chief Minister Pema Khandu. The APEDP is aimed at “catalyzing an inclusive solution to the motley local challenges by developing a vibrant entrepreneurial ecosystem in the state and facilitating aspiring entrepreneurs with comprehensive support and nurturing,” the DIPR informed in a release. The objective of APEDP is to formulate an inclusive solution to the motley local challenges faced by aspiring entrepreneurs through the development of a vibrant entrepreneurial ecosystem and side-by-side facilitating their entrepreneurial endeavours with comprehensive support and nurturing.
&lt;br&gt;

The ‘Arunachal Pradesh Entrepreneurship Challenge (APEC)’ was unveiled by the Department of Finance, Investment and Planning as the first part of the APEDP on the eve of the 74th Independence Day. The APEC will identify, promote, support, and nurture sustainable and locally relevant business ideas and entrepreneurs. After a thorough evaluation and screening of applications, 50 top entrepreneurs will be selected for the Incubation and Pre-Incubation programmes facilitated by the IIM Calcutta Innovation Park. Out of these, the top 10 entrepreneurs will be awarded up to ₹5,00,000 and the next 40 entrepreneurs will be awarded up to ₹4,00,000. It is specifically implemented in Arunachal Pradesh. Additionally, the nodal department is Department Of Finance-Planning And Investment.

The scheme provides the following benefits: Financial: Top 50 entrepreneurs will be selected for the Incubation and PreIncubation programs facilitated by the IIM Calcutta Innovation Park. Out of these, the top 10 entrepreneurs will be awarded up to Rs. 5 lakhs and the next 40 entrepreneurs will be awarded up to Rs. 4 lakhs.Government Support: Eligibility to avail of various Government Support Schemes, Grants, Soft Loans &amp; Pilot Opportunities.Training &amp; Mentorship: Training &amp; Mentorship through preincubation, incubation support, and funding programs conducted by IIM Calcutta Innovation Park (IIMCP).

Eligibility criteria include: The applicant should be a resident of Arunachal Pradesh above 18 years of age with principal business units or should have a proposal to set up branches in Arunachal Pradesh or an Arunachali currently working or residing outside the state, but wishes to return back to the state &amp; become an Entrepreneur.
The applicant should be promised an idea and plan or prototype/working model.
The applicant should be an Entrepreneur with good communication skills.
The applicant should be an earlystage venture set up on or after 15 August The applicant should be MSMEregistered enterprises.
The applicant should be an existing entrepreneur in your district.
The applicant should be a College graduate.
The applicant should be Selfemployed people in innovative businesses. 
The applicant should belong to organized producer groups. The application process is as follows: Step 01: Visit the Official Website of Arunachal Pradesh Startup Portal


Step 02: Click on Register Now. It will take you to the Register Page.


Step 03: Then on the Register page click on Register Now.


Step 04: Register by filling in your basic details i:e. Your Name, Contact Number, Email Address, Password, and How did you hear about us? After filling in these details Click on Sign up. 


Step 05: Login using the confirmation mail link on your Mail account. After login, you will receive a Congratulation mail 


Step 06: Login by typing your mail Id &amp; Password to access the form and submit.


Step 07:  After Signing in you will land on the Form page, Answer all the questions with red stars must be answered, fill in all the necessary details, and be as descriptive as possible you can. 


Step 08: Click Draft if you want to save an incomplete form &amp; Click Submit if you want to submit the final application. For more information, please refer to: Guidelines: https://www.arunachalplan.gov.in/arunachal-pradesh-entrepreneurship-development-programme/ User Manual - Application Process: https://www.arunachalplan.gov.in/arunachal-pradesh-entrepreneurship-development-programme/ STATES’ STARTUP RANKING 2021 Arunachal Pradesh: https://www.startupindia.gov.in/srf-2022/reports1/Arunachal_Pradesh_State_Report_07-06-2022.pdf Tags associated with the scheme include: Arunachal Pradesh, Business Venture, Entrepreneurship, Self-employed, Training.