The name of this welfare scheme is Go-Green Three Wheelers Scheme (GBOCWWB). It is also known as GGTWS(GBOCWWB). The “Go-Green Three Wheelers Scheme” is implemented by the Gujarat Building and Other Construction Worker’s Welfare Board (GBOCWWB), Labour, Skill Development &amp;amp; Employment Department, Government of Gujarat. Under the scheme, a one-time subsidy will be provided on the purchase of battery-operated tricycle (e-rickshaw) vehicles to registered construction disabled workers.
Objective:
If a registered construction worker becomes disabled or incapacitated due to an accident while working at a construction site, the income of the construction worker ceases. So the construction worker is permanently financially unable to support the family. In such a situation, the use of three-wheelers is intended to help the construction workers as a source of income so that they can find other employment and support their families. The scheme targets beneficiaries such as Individual. It is specifically implemented in Gujarat. The implementing agency is Gujarat Building And Other Construction Worker’s Welfare Board. Additionally, the nodal department is Labour and Employment Department.

The scheme provides the following benefits: Under this scheme, a onetime subsidy will be available to the extent of 50% of the ExShowroom Price or ₹48,000/whichever is less.
   The assistance will also be available for the amount of Registration Fee and Road Tax paid for the first time of the new ThreeWheeler. (RTO Tax and Road Tax would be reimbursed as well.)

Note 01: The cost of the motor vehicle tax amount of the new threewheeler, fixed by the State Government and at the prevailing rate applicable to persons with disabilities, will be borne by the registered disabled construction worker here.
Note 02: This additional subsidy will be provided in addition to the subsidy available under the electric vehiclerelated schemes of Government.

Eligibility criteria include: The construction workers should be registered with the Gujarat Building and Other Construction Worker’s Welfare Board.
   The registered construction workers who become disabled or incapacitated due to an accident while working at a construction site will be eligible to get the benefit of this scheme.
   The registered construction disabled worker (Shramyogi) should have purchased a lithiumion batteryoperated vehicle in his own name.
   The registered construction disabled worker (Shramyogi) should hold a tricycle license to operate a tricycle.
   The benefit of this scheme will be available once per registered construction disabled worker. The application process is as follows: &gt; Application Process:

Step 01: To avail of the benefits under the scheme, the applicants need to visit the nearest district office of the Gujarat Building and Other Construction Worker’s Welfare Board.
Step 02: Collect the application form and fill in all the details as required.
Step 03: Attach all the required documents and submit the application form to the concerned official at the district office.
&gt; PostApplication Process:

Step 01: The application form will be approved by District Nirikshak.
Step 02: Then it will be submitted to the State Project Manager of the Head office.
Step 03: It will then be approved by the Head Office Govt. Labour officer and then Member Secretary subsequently.
Step 04: After checking the online application made by the dealer approval of the Accounts Officer and Hon’ble Member Secretary, reimbursed amount. For more information, please refer to: Official Website: https://bocwwb.gujarat.gov.in/schemes.htm Guidelines: https://bocwwb.gujarat.gov.in/Portal/Document/10_372_1_GO_GREEN_THREE_WHEELERS_SCHEME.pdf Scheme Details (Page No. 375): https://planning.gujarat.gov.in/images/pdf/dp-eng-22-23.pdf Tags associated with the scheme include: Building Worker, Construction Worker, E-rickshaw, Labour, Person With Disability, PwD, Subsidy, Three Wheelers, Tricycle.