The name of this welfare scheme is State Horticulture Scholarship. It is also known as SHS. The “State Horticulture Scholarship” is a scholarship scheme, launched by the Department of Horticulture, Government of Nagaland to provide scholarship/stipends to students who are pursuing B.Sc. (Horticulture) M.Sc. (Horticulture) Ph.D. (Horticulture) courses. The department introduced the scheme to ensure that students pursuing Horticulture degrees should have the right to quality education and support their education in order to help achieve their maximum potential. The scheme targets beneficiaries such as Individual. It is specifically implemented in Nagaland. The implementing agency is Department Of Horticulture, Government Of Nagaland. Additionally, the nodal department is Horticulture Department, Nagaland.

The scheme provides the following benefits: Under the scheme, scholarships/Stipends will be given to students according to the course/programme in which they are enrolled.

&gt; Time frame: Applicant shall be awarded the stipend for a fixed number of years as follows:


   B.Sc. (Horticulture): 4 Years
   M.Sc. (Horticulture): 2 Years
   Ph.D. (Horticulture): 3 Years

Eligibility criteria include: Applicant should be an indigenous inhabitant of Nagaland.
   The students who are pursuing B.Sc. Hons. (Horticulture), M.Sc. Horticulture and Ph. D. Horticulture are eligible to apply.
   The institution in which the applicant is currently studying must be recognized by UGC.
   Applicant should not be receiving any form of financial assistance in the form of a Scholarship/Stipend from any other sources. The application process is as follows: All eligible students shall apply through the Common Scholarship Portal: https://scholarship.nagaland.gov.in
Step 01: Registration

  To register, visit the official Common Scholarship Portal of Nagaland: https://scholarship.nagaland.gov.in   Create an Account: If the applicant is a new user, click on the &amp;quot;Register&amp;quot; option. Provide your MOBILE Number linked with AADHAAR to get an OTP and verify the mobile. Once Mobile is verified, provide essential details such as your name, email address and create a unique password. Click on the &amp;quot;Register&amp;quot; button to proceed.
Step 02: Login

  Login to Your Account: Once your mobile number is verified, log in to your scholarship account using the credentials the applicant created during registration.
Step 03: Fill in the User Profile

  Personal Details: Update your personal information, including name, date of birth, gender, category, Bank Account Details, etc.
Step 04: Apply for Scholarship

  Select your Scholarship Scheme, Institution, Institution State, Institution, District and proceed.
  Academic Information: Provide details about your educational background, such as school/college name, course, year of study, etc.
Step 05: Upload Documents

  Upload Required Documents: Depending on the scholarship applicants are applying for, applicants will need to upload supporting documents. Commonly required documents include:
Step 06: Verify and Submit

  Review Your Application: Carefully review all the information applicants have entered and the documents applicants have uploaded. Make sure everything is accurate and complete.  Submit Application: Once applicants are satisfied with your application, click on the &amp;quot;Submit&amp;quot; button.
Step 07: Track Your Application

  Application Tracking: After submitting your application, applicants can track its status on the portal: https://scholarship.nagaland.gov.in/  Log in to your account and check for updates on your application&amp;#39;s status regularly.

Note: Applications with incomplete/unclear documents will be summarily rejected. If the applicant prefers not to apply online, he/she can visit the nearest Common Service Center (CSC). The staff at CSCs will assist in the application process, ensuring a smooth experience.
Step 01: Locate the nearest CSC by contacting the Helpline Number.
Step 02: Visit the CSC in person and inform the staff about the service applicants want to apply for.
Step 03: Provide the necessary documents and information to the CSC staff.
Step 04: The CSC staff will guide the applicant through the application process, help the applicant fill out the forms, and submit the application on behalf of the applicant. For more information, please refer to: Guidelines: https://scholarship.nagaland.gov.in/storage/Guidelines//9_Guidelines Common Scholarship Portal: https://scholarship.nagaland.gov.in/ Tags associated with the scheme include: BSc, Horticulture, MSc, PhD, Scholarship, Stipend, Student.