The name of this welfare scheme is Grant of Financial Assistance to the Press Reporters of Puducherry. It is also known as GFAPRP. The scheme &quot;Grant of Financial Assistance to the Press Reporters of Puducherry&quot; by the Department of Information &amp; Publicity, Union Territory of Puducherry, aims to provide financial support amounting to ₹25,000/- to eligible press reporters who have served in Newspaper / Magazine duly registered with the &quot;Registrar of Newspapers, Government of India, New Delhi&quot; continuously for atleast 10 years. The scheme targets beneficiaries such as Individual. It is specifically implemented in Puducherry. Additionally, the nodal department is Information and Publicity Department, Puducherry.

The scheme provides the following benefits: Financial Assistance: ₹25,000/.Mode of Disbursal: The Director, Department of Information &amp; Publicity, Puducherry will transmit the cheque to the applicant after obtaining the necessary receipt thereof from the applicant in the prescribed format.Time Limit: Three weeks from the date of application.

Eligibility criteria include: The applicant should be a citizen of India.
The applicant should be a native of the Union Territory of Puducherry by birth or by continuous residence for not less than five years.
The applicant should be a Press Reporter.
The applicant should have served in a Newspaper/Magazine.
The Newspaper/Magazine should be duly registered with the &quot;Registrar of Newspapers, Government of India, New Delhi&quot;.
The Newspaper/Magazine should be registered continuously for not less than 10 years. The application process is as follows: Step 1: The interested applicant should take print of the prescribed format of the application form.
Step 2: In the application form, fill in all the mandatory fields, paste the passportsized photograph (signed across, if required), and attach copies of all the mandatory documents (selfattest, if required).
Step 3: The applicant should visit the Office of the Department of Information &amp; Publicity or one of its Branch Offices. The Office Timings are Monday to Friday, 08:45 am to 01:00 pm &amp; 02:00 pm to 05:45 pm. Submit the duly filled and signed application form and the documents to the Member SecretarycumTreasurer.
Step 4: Upon successful receipt of the application, a unique number is assigned to the applicant for identifying each applicant which shall be used for all further references and also as acknowledgement for the receipt of the application. For more information, please refer to: Guidelines & Application Form: https://py.gov.in/sites/default/files/citizens-charterinfopublicity.pdf Contact Us: https://info.py.gov.in/contact-us Tags associated with the scheme include: Financial Assistance, Magazine, Newspaper, Reporter.