The name of this welfare scheme is Fare for Visiting Home Town (HBOCWWB). It is also known as FVHT(HBOCWWB). The scheme “Fare for Visiting Home Town” is implemented by the Haryana Building and Other Construction Workers Welfare Board (HBOCWWB), Labour Department, Government of Haryana. Under this scheme, a free traveling facility to visit the home town once in a year for a family not exceeding 5 members is provided to the registered construction workers who have a minimum two years’ regular membership of the Board. The payment of expenditure incurred by the beneficiary is paid at the rate prescribed by the Haryana Roadways (Ordinary fare) from time to time or actual railway fare (2nd Class), as the case may be. The scheme targets beneficiaries such as Family, Individual. It is specifically implemented in Haryana. The implementing agency is Haryana Building & Other Construction Workers Welfare Board. Additionally, the nodal department is Labour Department.

The scheme provides the following benefits: Under this scheme, a free traveling facility to visit the home town once in a year for a family not exceeding 5 members is provided to the registered construction worker of the Board.
   The payment of expenditure incurred by the beneficiary is paid at the rate prescribed by the Haryana Roadways (Ordinary fare) from time to time or actual railway fare (2nd Class), as the case may be.

Eligibility criteria include: The applicant should be engaged in building or construction work.
   The applicants should be registered with the Haryana Building &amp;amp; Other Construction Workers Welfare Board.
   The registered worker must have a minimum of two year’s regular membership.
   The worker must have an active membership with the Board.
   Five members of a family including registered construction workers are eligible to avail of benefits under the scheme on a visit to their home town once in a year. The application process is as follows: &gt; Registration of a Construction Worker Under HBOCWWB:

Step 01: The construction worker should visit the Official Website of the Labour Department Haryana. 
Step 02: On the home page, click on the “Building &amp;amp; Ors Const. Workers Welfare Board” link.
Step 03: Applicant has to read all the instructions and then “Tick” the acknowledgment, then click on the “Submit” button.
Step 04: Verification using Parivar Pehchan Patra (PPP)Family ID:
a) Forget/not having Family ID: If you do not have PPP ID or forget the PPP ID, then you have to select that radio button and you are redirected to the PPP Portal to get their PPP ID.
b) Having a Family ID: If you have a family ID, then only you can move to the next step for registration. To proceed further, follow the given steps:
• Select the “I have family ID” radio button
• Enter Parivar Pehchan Patra number Family ID
• Click on “Fetch Family Details” which displays the family members registered under the given Family ID
• Select a family member for registration
• Enter the OTP that is being sent to the selected family member for verification
• Click on “Click to Verify”
Step 05: Aadhaar Verification before Registration: Provide your Aadhaar number and tick mark the checkbox for the declaration. Click on the “Continue” button.
Step 06: After verification, fill out the complete registration form and submit the form.
Step 07: Login into the account: After the final submission of the registration form, a worker can login into his/her account using their username and password but unable to avail of any benefit. 
Step 08: To avail of the benefits, a worker has to pay the registration fee and add a work experience of a minimum of 90 days of the preceding year.
Step 09: Now, the worker needs to add work experience, to add 90 days of experience, the applicant has to fill in all the details where he/she has worked.
Step 10: The schemes and other benefits can be availed once the 90 days’ work experience is approved by the Officer.
&gt; Apply for Scheme: Registration Process on AntyodayaSARAL Portal:

Step 01: To avail of the benefits of the scheme, the applicant needs to visit the Official Portal AntyodayaSARAL Portal
Step 02: If the applicant is not registered on the portal, then he/she gets registered on the portal. 
Step 03: For registration, click on “New User/Register Here” and fill in all the mandatory details i.e. Name, Email ID, Mobile Number &amp;amp; password. Click on ‘Submit’.
Step 04: Applicants will receive the login ID on their mobile number.
&gt; Login to Apply for the Scheme:

Step 01: Visit the Official Portal AntyodayaSARAL Portal
Step 02: The “Sign in here” option is available on the right side of the screen. Applicant needs to fill in their credentials and click on the ‘Login’ button.
Step 03: In the opened window, click on “Scheme/Services list” and a list of schemes will appear on the screen.
Step 04: Now, select the scheme and click on “Apply for Service/Scheme”.
Step 05: Fill in all the details asked in the online application form and submit the application form.
HBOCW Registration User Manual        HBOCW Registration Basic Instructions &amp;amp; Features For more information, please refer to: Official Website: https://hrylabour.gov.in/bocw/settings/schemeDetail/111 Scheme Details: https://kms.saralharyana.nic.in/ViewDoc?Id=DfTeM%2foV%2fXYUUqM9bK8NjA%3d%3d Registration: https://hrylabour.gov.in/bocw/Basicinfo/bocw_terms Online Application Portal: https://saralharyana.gov.in/ Tags associated with the scheme include: Building Worker, Construction Worker, Fare, Home Town, Labour.