The name of this welfare scheme is Supply of Agriculture Machineries Scheme. It is also known as SAMS. The “Supply of Agriculture Machineries Scheme” was launched by the Department of Agriculture &amp;amp; Farmers’ Welfare, Government of Meghalaya for the distribution and sale of Agriculture Machineries such as Power Tillers, etc. to farmers at a subsidized rate. The scheme targets beneficiaries such as Individual. It is specifically implemented in Meghalaya. The implementing agency is Department Of Agriculture & Farmers’ Welfare, Government Of Meghalaya. Additionally, the nodal department is Agriculture Department.

The scheme provides the following benefits: > Pattern of Assistance:


Subsidy on Power tillers, Reapers, Harvesters, etc.

> Type of Assistance and Entitlement (If Any):


50% subsidy sale.

Eligibility criteria include: The applicant should be a permanent resident of Meghalaya.
The applicant should be a bonafide farmer engaged in agriculture. The application process is as follows: > Application Process:

Step 01: The eligible bonafide farmer can apply/write an application on plain paper.
Step 02: Along with the application, attach copies of all the mandatory documents (selfattest, if required).
Step 03: Submit the duly filled and signed application along with the documents at the nearest office of the Agriculture Development Officer of a CD Block/Agriculture Circle.
> Mode of Selection of Beneficiary(s):

The bonafide farmers shall be selected on a first come first serve basis.
> Whom to Contact:


District Agriculture Officers of the concerned districts
Subdivisional Officers of the concerned subdivisions
Agriculture Development Officers of the concerned Community and Rural Development Blocks
Assistant Agriculture Engineer (Mechanical) of the concerned districts For more information, please refer to: Official Website: https://megagriculture.gov.in/PUBLIC/schemes_ShowSchemesA.aspx?schid=80 Tags associated with the scheme include: Agriculture Machineries, Farmer, Subsidy.