The name of this welfare scheme is Motorisation Of Traditional Crafts. It is also known as MTC. The scheme “Motorisation of Traditional Crafts” was launched by the Department of Fisheries &amp;amp; Animal Resources Development, Government of Odisha to increase the catch per voyage and incomes of traditional fishermen.
Objective:

  - To increase the marine fish production from the State.
  - To increase the income and livelihoods of traditional fishermen by motorizing their traditional non-motorized crafts.

Implementation Target &amp;amp; Area Of Operation:
The scheme shall be implemented by the Additional Fisheries Officer (Marine)/DFO (B&amp;amp;T), Balugaon in seven maritime districts of the State. The district-wise annual target shall be communicated by the Director of Fisheries at the beginning of the financial year. The target is interchangeable depending on the progress made by the District Level Officers. The scheme targets beneficiaries such as Individual. It is specifically implemented in Odisha. The implementing agency is Directorate Of Fisheries, Odisha. Additionally, the nodal department is Fisheries and Animal Resources Development Department.

The scheme provides the following benefits: Unit Cost and Subsidy Assistance are to be provided to the eligible beneficiary as under:
Sl. No.Type of EngineHP of EngineApproximate Unit Cost in INRMaximum Admissible Subsidy (40% for General Category)Maximum Admissible Subsidy (60% for SC/ST Category)1IBM/OBMUpto 100 HP1,40,00056,00084,Financial Assistance shall be limited to 1 (one) unit per individual beneficiary.
Backended subsidy will be limited to 60% for SC/ST and 40% for General Category on the actual cost of the boat engine as per the GST bills.
Subsidy should be released directly to the Aadhaarlinked Bank Account of the beneficiary.

Eligibility criteria include: The following are the eligibility criteria of the beneficiary:

The applicant must be a permanent resident of Odisha and must possess identity and residential proof including Aadhaar Card.
The applicant must have Bank Account in his/her name in the State of Odisha.
The applicant must be a traditional marine active fisherman.
The applicant must not have availed subsidy for the purchase of an engine under any Government scheme in the last five years.
The applicant must possess a traditional nonmotorized fishing boat/traditional motorized fishing boat duly registered in Odisha.
The applicant must possess a valid ownership certificate, Registration certificate, and Fishing license under the ReAL craft for a nonmotorized traditional boat or traditional Motorized boat/craft.
The applicant must not have acquired a boat through the transfer of ownership which is motorized under any Government scheme in the last five years availing subsidy by previous owners. The application process is as follows: The traditional fishermen having registered nonmotorized boats/motorized fishing craft shall apply through the GOSUGAM Portal through a registration process with requisite documents.
Registration Process:
Step 01: Visit the official website:  https://sugam.odisha.gov.in/website/home
Step 02: Click on “Apply” and then click on “Register Now”.
Step 03: On the registration page, fill in the mandatory details (Name, Email, Mobile Number, Address, and Password) and click on &amp;quot;Register&amp;quot;. The login credentials will be sent to your registered Email ID / Mobile Number.
Application Process:
Step 01: Visit the official website: https://sugam.odisha.gov.in/website/home
Step 02: Click on “Scheme &amp;amp; Services” and then select the scheme by its name.
Step 03: Click “Apply” and login. https://sugam.odisha.gov.in/website/citizenportal/login
Step 04: On the application page, fill in all the mandatory fields and upload the required documents in the appropriate file size and file type. Upon successful submission of the application, you will get an Application Reference ID.
Check Application Status:
Step 01: You can enter the Application ID on the ‘Track Status’ page to check the status of your application.
Step 02: SMS alerts will also be sent to you at each step of the application after submission. In case the difficulty is encountered in online mode, the application may be submitted to the Additional Fisheries Officers/DFO (B&amp;amp;T), Balugaon in offline mode through the AFO (ME unit) in the prescribed format.
Step 01: The applicant has to approach their concerned Additional Fisheries Officers/DFO (B&amp;amp;T), Balugaon of the concerned coastal district. Collect the application form.
Step 02: Fill in all the mandatory fields of the application form and attach all the (selfattested) mandatory documents and submit it to the designated receiving authority.
Step 03: The Additional Fisheries Officers/ DFO (B&amp;amp;T), Balugaon on receipt of the application will forward it to the concerned AFOs for verification of the boat/craft.
Step 04: The initial geotagged photographs of the boat along with the beneficiary and field verification report shall be prepared by the AFO and submitted to the Additional Fisheries Officers(M)/DFO (B&amp;amp;T), Balugaon. The AFO should ensure that the engine proposed by the beneficiary is completely new.
Note 01: The Additional Fisheries Officer (Marine)/ DFO (B&amp;amp;T), Balugaon shall release the subsidy to the beneficiaries through DBT only on the eligible items after proper verification of the GST bills to the Aadhaarlinked Bank Account of the beneficiary.
Note 02: Subsidy shall be calculated and released to the beneficiary based on the actual unit cost incurred, subject to maximum subsidy as specified under the scheme.
&lt;br&gt; For more information, please refer to: Guideline: https://sugam.odisha.gov.in/admin//storage/uploads/serviceImg/6219b3ac5b3971645851564.pdf Website: https://sugam.odisha.gov.in/website/home/scheme-list Tags associated with the scheme include: Boat, Crafts, Financial Assistance, Fish, Fishermen.