The name of this welfare scheme is Samruddhi Scheme. It is also known as SAMRUDDHI_SCHEME. It aims to collaborate, create a partnership with potential companies, and thereby promote 25,000 entrepreneurs in the State for three years. This will be done by facilitating access to ready to do business models, franchise, dealerships and other self-employment based ventures in the State.


With a vision of driving entrepreneurs among the economically backward section across the state, the Department of Social welfare has launched Samruddhi.It aims to create Industry Oriented Enterprise by enabling the SC/ST community through entrepreneurship and skill training.This scheme is touted as the country’s most aspirational programme.It focuses more on non-technological entrepreneurship model where the applicant will be entitled to set up a retail outlet after having gone through a training process that will be provided by the franchisor.
Samruddhi also looks to impart skill after ascertaining the requirement from the industry, with the objective to take entrepreneurship to tier II and tier III regions.The programme aims to build a robust network of franchisors and eventually extend the range of products and services on offer to tier II and tier III towns which cater to the people at the bottom of the pyramid. Samruddhi aims to build plug and play models of micro franchisee with a motive of turning a job seeker to a job giver.


The subsidy component of this scheme is Rs. 10,00,000/-
Samruddhi scheme will create thousands of employment opportunities by being a catalyst between a corporation and beneficiaries thereby creating a conducive ecosystem to roll out tried and tested successful business models in Karnataka resulting in increased income levels and improved standard of living.


The applicant can apply Samruddhi Scheme for the following type Business:
Hardware and Garments, Entertainment and Retail. Food and Beverages, Health and Fitness, Agriculture and Automobiles, Wellness and Beauty, Electricals and Mobiles, Logistics and Counter Service,Watches, Luggage and Footwear, Dairy Products, Education, Books and Stationary,Home Appliances and Hospitality The scheme targets beneficiaries such as All. It is specifically implemented in Karnataka. Additionally, the nodal department is Social Welfare Department.

It falls under the categories: Social welfare & Empowerment, Business & Entrepreneurship, Women and Child.

Eligibility criteria include: Eligibility Criteria – Applicant

Age of the applicant should be minimum 21 years


Applicant must qualify SSLC(Secondary School Leaving Certificate)


An applicant must be a permanent resident of Karnataka


The applicant must belong SC community



Eligibility Criteria for Empanelment of Firms

The company should be registered in India


The company should provide a franchise/dealership opportunity


The firm should have a strong brand and market presence for at least three years


The firm should have a minimum of ten franchisee/dealership
The firm needs to provide marketing training to the entrepreneurs



Conditions:
The beneficiary will be selected as per merit. He should go through the screening process at the district level and should be approved by the franchisor 
The beneficiary must compulsorily must undergo the orientation program conducted by the franchisor 
The selected candidate if at any stage is found ineligible such sanction from the corporation stands cancelled. The physical and financial targets have been calculated as per population and such targets have been communicated at the district level. For more information, please refer to: Guidelines: https://banjarathanda.kar.nic.in/samruddhi_scheme.html Guidelines: https://adcl.karnataka.gov.in/en/samruddhi_scheme.html