The name of this welfare scheme is Government of Goa State Scholarship to NDA Cadets. It is also known as GGSSNC-GOA. The scheme &amp;quot;State Scholarship to NDA Cadets&amp;quot; is a Scholarship Scheme by the Directorate of Higher Education, Government of Goa. The objective of the scheme is to support NDA cadets from humble financial backgrounds undergoing training at the National Defence Academy, Khadakwasla, Pune. The scheme provides financial assistance to the underprivileged cadets hailing from Goa who have opted to serve the country by joining the Defence Services. The scheme aims to attract cadets from economically disadvantaged sections of society opting to serve the country by taking up such challenging jobs/training. The scheme targets beneficiaries such as Individual. It is specifically implemented in Goa. Additionally, the nodal department is Higher Education Department.

The scheme provides the following benefits: Scholarship of ₹ 1,000/per month during the period of training (subject to a maximum of 24 months or duration of the course whichever is less).One Time Outfit Allowance of ₹ 12,000/.

Eligibility criteria include: The cadet should have been born in Goa and/or domiciled in Goa for a period of at least 15 years.
The income limit of the cadet’s parents/ guardians shall not exceed ₹ 15,000/per month (₹ 1,80,000 per annum).
In case the cadet is SC/ST/OBC, the income limit of the cadet’s parents/ guardians shall not exceed ₹ 37,500/per month (₹ 4,50,000 per annum).
The cadet should not be receiving financial assistance/scholarship/freeship from any other source. The application process is as follows: Step 1: The interested applicant should visit the Directorate of Higher Education, Government of Goa, DTE Building, AltoPorvorim, Bardez, Goa Step 2: Take a print of the proforma of the application form, or request a hard copy from the concerned authority.
Step 3: In the application form, fill in all the mandatory fields, paste the passportsized photograph (signed across), and attach copies of all the mandatory documents (selfattest if required).
Step 4: Submit the duly filled and signed application form along with the documents to the concerned authority. For more information, please refer to: Guidelines: https://www.goa.gov.in/wp-content/uploads/2016/12/Scheme-to-GSS-to-NDA-CAdets.doc Tags associated with the scheme include: Cadet, Defence, Financial Assistance, NDA, Scholarship.