The name of this welfare scheme is Netaji Subhas - ICAR International Fellowship. It is also known as NS-ICARIF. “Netaji Subhas - ICAR International Fellowship (NS-ICAR IF)” is a Fellowship Scheme by the Indian Council of Agricultural Research (ICAR), Department of Agricultural Research and Education (DARE), Ministry of Agriculture &amp; Farmers Welfare. The objective is to develop competent human resource that are trained in the identified best laboratories in the world (for Indian candidates) and similarly expose overseas candidates to the best Indian Agricultural Universities (AUs) in the ICAR-AU system for creating a pool of scientist-envoys for enhanced future co-operation.


Objectives:
In its continued efforts towards enhancing and sustaining the standards, quality and relevance of higher agricultural education in the country, ICAR has instituted International Fellowships with dual purpose of:
(i) human resource development in cutting edge technologies, and 
(ii) demonstrating the strength of Indian agricultural system abroad. 


The fellowships are available to support Indian/ Overseas nationals for pursuing doctoral degree in agriculture and allied sciences, in the identified priority areas, to the:
1.  Indian candidates for study abroad in the identified overseas Universities/Institutions having strong research and teaching capabilities, and 
2.  Overseas candidates for study in the best Indian AUs in the ICAR-AUs system. The scheme targets beneficiaries such as Individual. The implementing agency is Indian Council Of Agricultural Research. Additionally, the nodal ministry is Ministry Of Agriculture and Farmers Welfare and the nodal department is Department of Agriculture Research and Education.

It falls under the categories: Education & Learning.

Eligibility criteria include: Master’s degree in agriculture/allied sciences with an Overall Grade Point Average (OGPA) 60 out of 0 or 65% marks or equivalent will be the eligibility requirement for the NSICAR IFs. 
The fresh candidates should not be more than 35 years of age on the last date prescribed for receipt of applications. The upper age limit for Inservice candidates will be 40 years on the last date for receipt of applications.
The fellowship would be available for both, fresh and inservice candidates. However, the fresh candidates should have completed their qualifying degree not more than two years before the specified date in the year of admission. The inservice candidates from India should be employed in the ICARAU system.
The Council will identify and announce the priority areas of research and the list of institutions for admission, one year in advance, for availing the Netaji SubhasICAR IFs.



Bank Guarantee and Service Bond:

Indian selected fellows shall provide an irrevocable Bank guarantee for an amount of US$ 10,000/(equivalent in rupee currency) in favour of the Secretary, ICAR. The Bank guarantee should be valid for the entire duration till the successful completion of the programme. For foreign national selected fellows, an amount of ₹ 2,00,000 will be recovered from their fellowship grant as alternate of Bank guaranty, in terms of ₹ 1,00,000 each from first and second installment till successful completion of their Ph.D. study programme. This fellowship amount of Rs. 2,00,000 will be paid to the fellow at the time of final release of fellowship”.The Indian inservice candidates selected for international fellowship shall execute a bond with the deputing University/Institute to undertake to serve that institution after the completion of degree for at least three years.



Eligibility for the Continuance of the Fellowship: 

The fellow will submit his progress report to the Council, through his/her adviser/supervisor/ head of the institution every six months. 
During the tenure of fellowship, the fellow should neither change the place of work nor deviate from the broad research area for which the fellowship is sanctioned. The selected candidates shall be required to submit an Undertaking to this effect and also for adherence to the other conditions of the guidelines regulating the fellowship as 
prescribed by the ICAR, with the acceptance of the International Fellowship.
The fellow will devote his/ her full time for his/ her chosen area of studies/ research work during the tenure of his/ her fellowship. 
Satisfactory progress in studies will be essential for the continuance of the fellowship during the period of study as reflected by the grades secured and certification by the advisor/ supervisor. 
In case of unsatisfactory performance in studies, or conduct probation, the fellowship will be terminated with immediate effect and the fellow will be required to meet the expenditure on remaining part of the programme from his/her own resources.
This fellowship is not meant for the conduct of training or to carry out research of short duration. 



Medical Fitness:
Selected fellow would be required to get his/ her medical fitness test and medical insurance done at his/her own cost. 


Payment of Fee: 
All fees chargeable by the host institution where the fellow is enrolled will be paid by the fellow himself out of the fellowship grant or from his/ her own resources.


IPR Issues: 
The fellow is expected to take proper measures to protect the Intellectual Property Rights likely to be generated during his/ her stay in the host institution. The Council will have the appropriate share on the patents/ knowledge generated by the fellow while pursuing the programme as specified under IP Management bulletin. If the fellow enters into any other IP agreement, the same will be appropriately shared with the Council. In all publications arising out of this work, the support from the Council should be duly acknowledged.


Completion Report:
Both Indian and Overseas fellows will have to submit within 15 days of their completion of the program, a copy of the dissertation/thesis and a brief report on the activities undertaken including any significant research contribution to the Council.


Nonreturn of Indian Fellows to India: 
The Indian Fellows have to return back to India after completion of the Ph.D. degree. If the fresh Indian Fellow is offered a suitable position in ICARAU system, he/she shall serve the ICARAU system. In case of noncompliance to these provisions, entire amount paid to the Fellow along with 10% overhead cost will be recovered by the Council from the Fellow himself or from his surety, failing which, the Indian Embassy in the host country will be informed to take appropriate action. For more information, please refer to: Guidelines: https://education.icar.gov.in/Revised%20Guidelines%20for%20Netaji%20Subhas%20IF-03052016.pdf Announcement 2022-23: https://icar.org.in/file/17833/download?token=dV1ZtXxA Application Form (PDF For Offline Application): https://icar.org.in/file/12921/download?token=SK1os8kS Tags associated with the scheme include: Agriculture, Fellowship.