The name of this welfare scheme is IMA Nongthangleima Yaipha Tengbang Scheme. It is also known as INYTS. The &quot;Ima Nongthangleima Yaipha Tengbang Scheme&quot; was launched by the  Social Welfare Department, Government of Manipur. This scheme aims to enable women to be the author of their destiny and that of the nation. A life cycle continuum approach has to be adopted that creates an ecosystem that addresses inherent biases and role-plays, protects and upholds the rights and dignity of women, and finally empowers them by providing them with financial assistance and resources to foster economic independence and contributing to the overall well-being of the individual.


Objective of the Scheme:
The primary objective of the scheme is to provide support to approximately 4,00,000 women in Manipur who are above the age of 40 years. The scheme aims to empower these women by offering crucial financial assistance, thereby aiding them in pursuing diverse livelihood options. The scheme targets beneficiaries such as Individual. It is specifically implemented in Manipur. Additionally, the nodal department is Social Welfare Department.

The scheme provides the following benefits: Financial Assistance of ₹500/per month.

Eligibility criteria include: The applicant should be a woman. 
The applicant should be a resident of Manipur. 
The applicant&#39;s age should be 40 years and above. 
The applicant should not be a beneficiary of any existing government scheme for individual beneficiaries. 
The applicant should be living without any source of income/livelihood.
The applicant should be any one of the following:



  Widows.
  Divorcees.
  Separated Women.
  Deprived and Marginalized Women such as exdrug users, etc.
  Single Women.
  Single Transgender Women.
  Women belonging to lowincome households and Other Marginalized Groups. The application process is as follows: > Application Process:

Step 1: The interested applicant can download the application form from the official website or collect it from the Directorate Office near the 2nd MR Gate.
Step 2: In the application form, fill in all the mandatory fields, and attach copies of all the mandatory documents (selfattest, if required).
Step 3: Submit the duly filled and signed application form along with the documents to the District Social Welfare Officer
Step 4: Request a receipt or acknowledgment from the Concerned District Social Welfare Officer to whom the application has been submitted. Ensure that the receipt contains essential details such as the date and time of submission, and a unique identification number (if applicable). For more information, please refer to: Guidelines: https://socialwelfare.mn.gov.in/media/filer_public/4d/e4/4de419ba-cc94-4ac6-8ee3-5972015f00da/cm_nongthang_leima_gudeline.pdf Application Form: https://socialwelfare.mn.gov.in/media/filer_public/35/14/3514a434-e860-4354-917a-b12237e79d18/cm_nongthang_leima-1.pdf Tags associated with the scheme include: Divorcee, Financial Assistance, Separated Women, Widow, Women.