The name of this welfare scheme is Scheme to Provide Grant to the Institutions for Long Term Project in the Field of Art and Culture (Sarjansheel Goa). It is also known as SPILTPFACSG. &quot;Scheme to Provide Grant to the Institutions for Long Term Project in the Field of Art and Culture (Sarjansheel Goa)&quot; implemented by the by the Directorate of Art and Culture, Government of Goa, provides financial support to the institutions/ individuals involved in long-term projects in the field of Art &amp; Culture.


> Objectives


1. To create and develop a cultural environment in the State of Goa. 
1. To provide financial support to the institutions/ individuals involved in long-term projects in the field of Art and culture. 
1. To preserve and promote the cultural heritage of Goa. The scheme targets beneficiaries such as Individual, University / Institution. It is specifically implemented in Goa. Additionally, the nodal department is Art, Culture and Museums Department.

The scheme provides the following benefits: A grant to the extent of 80% of the total expenditure involved is subject to a maximum ceiling of ₹ 5,00,000 per annum. 


> Number of Beneficiaries

The Department/Government may restrict the number of institutions/individuals according to the availability of funds.

Eligibility criteria include: > For Institutions 


Any institution registered under the Society’s Registration Act, 1860 or Indian Trust Act. 
The institution must be involved in longterm projects in the field of Art and Culture.



> For Individuals


Any individual from the Goan community, who has been a resident of Goa for 15 years or more.
The individual must be involved in a longterm project in the field of Art and Culture and should have contributed at least 15 years in the relevant field. The application process is as follows: The Director of Art &amp; Culture shall release an advertisement in local daily newspapers thereby inviting applications from eligible applicants.
Step 1: The interested applicant should visit the Directorate Of Art &amp; Culture, Government of Goa, 5th Floor, Shram Shakti Bhavan, Panaji, Patto, Panaji, Goa 403001
Step 2: Request a hard copy of the proforma from the concerned authority.
Step 3: In the application form, fill in all the mandatory fields, paste the passportsized photograph (signed across), and attach copies of all the mandatory documents (selfattest if required).
Step 4: Submit the duly filled and signed application form along with the documents to the ACOII, Directorate of Art &amp; Culture, Phone: 08322404623, Email: aco3dac.goa@nic.in For more information, please refer to: Citizen's Charter: https://www.goa.gov.in/wp-content/uploads/2022/06/Chitizen-Charter-2022-2023-art-and-culture.pdf Guidelines: https://www.artandculture.goa.gov.in/en/schemes-programmesschemes/financial-assistance-to-long-term-project-in-the-field-of-art-culture Tags associated with the scheme include: Culture, Grant, Project.