The name of this welfare scheme is Financial Assistive Devices for Persons with Disabilities. It is also known as FADPD. The scheme &amp;quot;Financial Assistive Devices for Persons with Disabilities&amp;quot; is implemented by the Haryana Backward Classes and Economically Weaker Sections Kalyan Nigam. Under the scheme, loans of up to ₹5 lakhs are provided to persons with disabilities who are either employed in reputable organizations or have received confirmed appointment letters. These loans can be used to purchase assistive devices such as screen readers, motorized tricycles, scooty, hearing aids, etc., including the cost of retrofitting, to enhance their employability or improve self-employment prospects. A person who is a permanent resident of Haryana and has a disability of 40% or more is eligible to avail the benefits under this scheme. The scheme targets beneficiaries such as Individual. It is specifically implemented in Haryana. The implementing agency is Haryana Backward Classes And Economically Weaker Sections Kalyan Nigam. Additionally, the nodal department is Welfare of Scheduled Caste & Backward Classes Department.

The scheme provides the following benefits: Under this scheme, loans of up to ₹5 lakhs are provided to the target group for the purchase of assistive devices such as screen readers, motorized tricycles, scooty, hearing aids, etc., including the cost of retrofitting, to enhance their employability or improve selfemployment prospects.

Eligibility criteria include: The applicant should be a permanent resident of Haryana.
   The applicant should have a disability of at least 40%.
   The age of the applicant should be above 18 years. For persons with mental retardation, the age is relaxed to 14 years instead of the usual 18 years.
   The applicant should be employed, either working in a reputable organization or have a confirmed appointment letter.

Note 1: The head of the organization should certify that the proposed assistive device will improve the applicant&amp;#39;s employability and that the device is not provided by the organization.
Note 2: For selfemployment, the need for an assistive device will be assessed by the authority (SCA/RRB, etc.) scrutinizing the application and will be recommended accordingly. The application process is as follows: > Registration Process on AntyodayaSARAL Portal:

Step 01: The eligible applicant may apply online through the Official PortalAntyodayaSARAL Portal. https://saralharyana.gov.in/
Step 02: If the applicant is not registered on the portal, he/she gets registered there. 
Step 03: For registration, click “New User” under ‘Sign In Here’ and fill in all the mandatory details i.e. Name, Email ID, Mobile Number, Password &amp;amp; State. Click on ‘Submit’.
Step 04: Verify your mobile number and email ID through the received OTP and complete the registration process.
&gt; Login to apply for the scheme:

Step 01: To avail the benefits of the scheme, visit the Official AntyodayaSARAL Portal and log in through the email ID used while registering.
Step 02: Enter Password &amp;amp; Captcha and click on ‘Login’.
Step 03: After successful login, click on ‘Apply for Services’ and then ‘View all Available Services’
Step 04: Now, you can search for the scheme and click on the scheme to go ahead and fill out the application form.
Step 05: Fill in all the mandatory details and upload all the mandatory documents.
Step 06: Preview the application form and click on ‘Submit’.
&gt; Tracking of Application:

Applicants can track their applications through the Official AntyodayaSARAL Portal by entering their Department Name, Scheme Name, and Application Reference ID. For more information, please refer to: Scheme Details: https://kms.saralharyana.nic.in/ViewDoc?Id=R%2fHWDGyVagIM4PkZHu1DQQ%3d%3d Scheme Details: https://haryanascbc.gov.in/contribution-towards-share-capital-to-haryana-backward-classes-and-economically-weaker-sections Antyodaya-SARAL Portal: https://saralharyana.gov.in/ Tags associated with the scheme include: Assistive Devices, Disability, Loan, PwD.