The name of this welfare scheme is Amended Technology Upgradation Fund. It is also known as ATUF. The Ministry of Textiles introduced the Amended Technology Upgradation Fund Scheme (ATUFS). This scheme aims to facilitate investment, employment, productivity, quality, and import and export substitution in the textile industry. It also indirectly promotes investments in the manufacturing of machinery for textiles. It is a credit-linked subsidy scheme for capital investment in textile manufacturing under the Government of India’s Make in India and Zero Defect and Zero Effect initiatives. 
Objectives 

- Export and employment generation, especially to women, by encouraging the garment and apparel industry and increasing India’s share in global exports.
- Promotion of technical textiles for export and employment.
- Promotion of converting existing looms to better technology looms to improve quality and productivity.
- Encourage better quality in the processing industry and check the need for the import of fabrics by the garment sector. The scheme targets beneficiaries such as Industries. Additionally, the nodal ministry is Ministry Of Textiles.

The scheme provides the following benefits: The eligible individual entities (not units) are entitled to get reimbursement of the Capital Investment Subsidy (CIS) according to the below rates:



Weaving using new looms that are shuttleless processing silk, handloom, and jute (includes weaving and knitting preparatory)	at the rate of CIS 10% subject to the upper limit of Rs.20 crore
Technical textiles and garments at the rate of CIS 15% subject to the upper limit of Rs.30 crore.
Multiple composite units/segments where the capital investment for technical textiles and garments is less than 50% of the project cost at the rate of CIS 10% subject to the upper limit of Rs.20 crore.
Multiple composite units/segments where the capital investment for technical textiles and garments exceeds 50% of the project cost at the rate of CIS 15% subject to the upper limit of Rs.30 crore.

Eligibility criteria include: The following entities are eligible to get the creditlinked subsidy under this scheme:



Handloom sector
Silk Sector
Jute Sector
Technical textiles
Madeup/garment manufacturing
Processing fibres, fabrics, madeup, garments and yarns
Weaving preparatory and knitting The application process is as follows: Step 1: A unit/applicant can apply for ATUFS after the machinery is installed for undergoing a joint inspection.
Step 2: The applicant can submit the ATUFS application online on the iTUFS online portal.
Step 3: Once the application is submitted, it will be forwarded to different stakeholders for verification.
Step 4: A Unique Identification Number (UID) is generated and provided to the applicants.
Step 5: Applicants can track the application online and can opt to get SMS/eMail updates about the application status through the UID.
Step 6: After the stakeholders approve, the Ministry of Textiles will release the funds. For more information, please refer to: Guidelines: chrome-extension://efaidnbmnnnibpcajpcglclefindmkaj/https://texmin.gov.in/sites/default/files/Guidelines%20%20for%20ATUFS%20dated%2029.02.2016.pdf Tags associated with the scheme include: Employment, Export, Import, Investment, Productivity.