The name of this welfare scheme is Indira Gandhi National Vrdhavastha Pension Yojana. It is also known as IGNVPYR. Indira Gandhi National Vridhavastha Pension Yojana, Under the Department of Social Justice and Empowerment  Government of Rajasthan, provides financial support to the citizens whose families live below the poverty line. To empower senior citizens by ensuring their financial independence and dignity in old age, thereby enabling them to lead a dignified life. The scheme targets beneficiaries such as Individual. It is specifically implemented in Rajasthan. Additionally, the nodal department is Law and Justice Department.

The scheme provides the following benefits: > Pension amount: ₹ 1000 /per month.

Eligibility criteria include: The applicant should be a native of Rajasthan.
The age of the applicant (male or female) is 60 years or more.
The applicant should belong to a family living below the poverty line as per the criteria set by the Government of India. The application process is as follows: > Registration

Step1: Applicant have to visit the official portal. 
Step2: Click on the option “Register”.
Step3: Then you will be redirected to the SSO registration page. The registration page will appear with the following options.


  Citizen


Step4: Choose the either one option from  the Jan Aadhaar Or Google to process further.


  Jan Aadhaar : Enter the Jan Aadhaar number, click on the ‘Next’ button,


      Select your name, the name of the head of the family and all the other members and 
      Click on the ‘Send OTP’ button. Enter the ‘OTP’ and 
      Click on the ‘Verify OTP’ button to Complete the registration. 






  Google : Enter the Gmail ID, click on the ‘Next’ button, 


      Enter the password.
      A new link appear on screen, now click on new SSO link.
      SSO id will appear on screen, now create the password.
      Enter Mobile number, click on registration.




 
> Apply 

Step1: Applicant have to visit the official portal. 
Step2: After login, dashboard will open.
Step3: Click on “IFMSRAJSSP&quot; option.
Step4: Select &quot;Continue to RajSSP&quot;. 
Step5: Now click on &quot;Apply for Scheme&quot; on screen. 
Step6: In this new page, will get a list of names of all the schemes,and click on the name of &quot;Yojana&quot;
Step7: Fill out all relevant details. 
Step8: Submit.


> Application form is free for Indira Gandhi National Old Age Pension Scheme. For more information, please refer to: Guidelines: https://schemes.rajasthan.gov.in/scheme/detail/108 Scheme Details: https://ssp.rajasthan.gov.in/HtmlPages/Schemes/DisablityDetail.aspx Registration: https://sso.rajasthan.gov.in/register Tags associated with the scheme include: Empower, Financial Assistance, Old Age, Pension.