The name of this welfare scheme is Reimbursement of Tuition Fees for Typewriting and Shorthand Courses for Children of Widows. It is also known as RTFTSCCW. The scheme “Reimbursement of Tuition Fees for Typewriting and Shorthand Courses for Children of Widows” by the Department of Women &amp; Child Development, Government of Pondicherry, was introduced to encourage the children of widows to pursue Typewriting and Shorthand courses and facilitate the reimbursement of the course fees. The scheme targets beneficiaries such as Individual. It is specifically implemented in Puducherry. Additionally, the nodal department is Women and Child Development Department, Puducherry.

The scheme provides the following benefits: Financial Assistance of ₹ 50/per month, as a reimbursement of the tuition fees.
The reimbursement shall be allowed only for a maximum period of ten months for a course and for the first attempt only.
The reimbursement shall be allowed only for any two children of the widow.

Eligibility criteria include: The applicant should be a citizen of India.
The applicant should be a native of the Union Territory of Pondicherry by birth or continuous residence for not less than 5 years.
The applicant should be a widow.
The annual income of the applicant should not exceed ₹24,The child of the widow should be a Student.
The child of the widow should be enrolled in an approved recognised by the Government of Tamilnadu/Government of Kerala/Government of Andhra Pradesh for the purpose of technical examinations.
The child should have passed/appeared for SSLC/Matriculation or any other equivalent examination recognized by the Education Department, Puducherry.
The child of the widow should be studying typewriting and/or shorthand.
Upto two dependent children of a widow are eligible.
The widow should not have been receiving assistance/grant under any other scheme being implemented by the Social Welfare Department, Puducherry. The application process is as follows: Step 1: The interested applicant should visit (during office hours) the Office/ SubOffice of the Department of Women and Child Development, and request the hard copy of the prescribed format of the application form from the staff exclusively entrusted to issue and collect filledin applications.
OR
The interested applicant should take print of the prescribed format of the application form.
Step 2: In the application form, fill in all the mandatory fields, paste the passportsized photograph (signed across, if required), and attach copies of all the mandatory documents (selfattest, if required).
Step 3: Submit the duly filled and signed application form along with the documents to the Deputy Director (Women Development) or the Child Development Project Officer (depending on the location), at least 30 days before the proposed marriage date.
Step 4: Request a receipt or acknowledgment from the concerned authority to whom the application has been submitted. Ensure that the receipt contains essential details such as the date and time of submission, and a unique identification number (if applicable). Step 1: Visit the Official Website of the eDistrict Portal of the Government of Puducherry.
Step 2: At the top right corner of the home page, click &quot;Login&quot;. In the login screen, click &quot;Register a New Membership&quot;.
Step 3: On the Registration Page, fill in all the mandatory fields: Username, Password, Confirm Password, Personal Details (Full Name, First Name, Email Address, Address, Current Address, Gender, Date of Birth, Mobile Number). Agree to the declaration. Fill in the Captcha Code, and click &quot;Signup&quot;.
Step 4: Visit the Official Website of the eDistrict Portal of the Government of Puducherry.
Step 5: At the top right corner of the home page, click &quot;Login&quot;. In the login screen, provide your Username and Password, fill in the Captcha Code, and click &quot;Sign In&quot;.
Step 6: On the next screen, a list of schemes by the Government of Puducherry will be displayed Departmentwise.
Step 7: Click on the scheme you wish to apply for. You will be taken to its online application form.
Step 8: In the application form, fill in all the mandatory fields (marked with a red asterisk) and upload all the mandatory documents (selfattest if required). 
Step 9: Tick the declaration stating &quot;I hereby declare that the abovementioned details are true and correct as per the best of my Knowledge&quot;. Submit the application and note the application number for tracking your application. The application number will also be received on your Registered Mobile Number / Registered Email ID.
Track Your Application here
 Access the User Manual for Online Application here For more information, please refer to: Guidelines: https://wcd.py.gov.in/sites/default/files/new-pdf-wcd-tuitionfees-type-shorthand.pdf RTI Manual: https://py.gov.in/sites/default/files/womenrtimanual.pdf Contact Us: https://wcd.py.gov.in/contact-us Office Locations: https://wcd.py.gov.in/office-locations Grievance Redressal: https://wcd.py.gov.in/ta/central-public-grievance-redress-and-monitoring-system Track Your Application: https://edistrict.py.gov.in/User/TrackApplication.aspx Tags associated with the scheme include: Child, Education, Reimbursement, Student, Widow.