The name of this welfare scheme is Vishist Coaching Scheme (GBOCWWB). It is also known as VCS(GBOCWWB). The “Vishist Coaching Scheme” is implemented by the Gujarat Building and Other Construction Worker’s Welfare Board (GBOCWWB), Labour, Skill Development &amp;amp; Employment Department, Government of Gujarat. Under this scheme, both the registration fee and coaching/tuition fees will be reimbursed/paid for the career development of the children of construction workers. The purpose of the scheme is to facilitate their pursuit of becoming Chartered Accountants and successfully passing the competitive examinations conducted by the Gujarat Public Service Commission, Union Public Service Commission, Gujarat Gaun Seva Selection Board, and Gujarat Panchayat Service Selection Board. The scheme targets beneficiaries such as Individual. It is specifically implemented in Gujarat. The implementing agency is Gujarat Building And Other Construction Worker’s Welfare Board. Additionally, the nodal department is Labour and Employment Department.

The scheme provides the following benefits: Under the scheme, the registration fee and coaching/tuition fees for the children of registered construction workers will be reimbursed/paid.

Eligibility criteria include: The children of construction workers registered with Gujarat Building and other Construction Workers Welfare Board will be eligible to get the benefit of this scheme.
   The construction workers can apply under the scheme for their children who aspire to pursue a career as Chartered Accountants and pass the competitive examinations conducted by the Gujarat Public Service Commission, Union Public Service Commission, Gujarat Gaun Seva Selection Board, and Gujarat Panchayat Service Selection Board.

&gt; Terms and Conditions:


   The registered construction worker has to apply in the prescribed format and within the prescribed time limit.
   Application has to be made within six months of taking admission in each academic year. The application process is as follows: &gt; Application Process for ‘ENirman Card’ under the GBOCWWB:

Step 01: The applicant may visit the eNirman Portal: https://enirmanbocw.gujarat.gov.in/
Step 02: On the home page, under the tab ‘Login to Portal’, click on ‘Please Register Here’.
Step 03: Enter all the mandatory information and then click on ‘Register’.
Step 04: After successful registration, the applicants can login through their User ID and Password.
Step 05: Now, update your profile by entering all the necessary details as required and click on ‘Update’.
Step 06: Select the ‘Construction Works Form’ and fill out all the mandatory information in the form.
Step 07: Upload all the relevant documents, agree with the terms &amp;amp; conditions, and submit the form.
Step 08: Once the application has been submitted, an application Number is generated which can be kept for future reference.
&gt; Process to track Application Status:

Step 01: The applicant may visit the eNirman Portal: https://enirmanbocw.gujarat.gov.in/
Step 02: On the home page, click on ‘View Citizen Application Status’.
Step 03: Enter the Application Number and Date of Birth.
Step 04: Now click on ‘View Status’.
&gt; Application Process for Scheme Benefit:

Step 01: The applicant may visit the Sanman Portal: https://sanman.gujarat.gov.in/
Step 02: On the home page, under the tab ‘Citizen Login’, click on ‘Please Register Here’.
Step 03: Enter your Aadhaar Card Number, select user type, and then enter your ENirman Card Number.
Step 04: Now, click on ‘Fetch’ &amp;amp; submit the details.
Step 05: After successful registration, the applicants can login through their User ID and Password.
Step 06: Now, select the scheme and read the instructions carefully for the selected scheme.
Step 07: Fill out the application form and upload all the relevant documents.
Step 08: Agree with the Rules &amp;amp; Regulations and submit the application form. A confirmation email with the application Number will be sent on the registered email ID. For more information, please refer to: Official Website: https://sanman.gujarat.gov.in/Home/BOCWScheme# Guidelines: https://bocwwb.gujarat.gov.in/Portal/Document/10_438_1_Vishist_coaching_Scheme.pdf Sanman Portal: https://sanman.gujarat.gov.in/ E-Nirman Portal: https://enirmanbocw.gujarat.gov.in/Index.aspx Tags associated with the scheme include: Building Worker, Coaching, Construction Worker, Labour, Tuition.