The name of this welfare scheme is YSR Pension Kanuka. It is also known as YSRPK. &amp;quot;YSR Pension Kanuka&amp;quot; is a Social Security Scheme by the Panchayat Raj &amp;amp; Rural Development Department, Govt. of Andhra Pradesh. The objective of this scheme is to ameliorate the hardships of the poor and vulnerable sections of society particularly the old and infirm, widows, and persons with disability to secure a dignified life. In 2019, the department enhanced the pension amount of Old Age Pension (OAP), Widow, Weavers, Toddy Tappers, Fishermen, Single Women, Traditional Cobblers, and PLHIV (ART Pensions ) categories to ₹ 2,250/-, Disabled Pensions to ₹ 3,000/-, CKDU/Dialysis Pensions to ₹ 10,000/-, and also reduced the age for Old Age Pensioners (OAP) from 65 to 60 years. The Eligibility Criteria have been revised so that the benefit of pension shall be reached all sections of the needy people.
&lt;br&gt; The scheme targets beneficiaries such as Individual. It is specifically implemented in Andhra Pradesh. Additionally, the nodal department is Panchayat Raj Rural Employment.

It falls under the categories: Social welfare & Empowerment.

Eligibility criteria include: > Common Eligibility For All Categories Of Pensions:


Total family income should be less than ₹ 10,000/per month in Rural areas and ₹ 12,000/per month in Urban Areas.
The total land holding of the family should be less than 00 acres of wet (or) 00 acres of dry (or) 00 acres of both wet and dry land together. 
Family should not own a fourwheeler (Taxis, Tractors, and Autos are exempted). 
No family member should be a Government employee or Pensioner. 
The monthly electricity consumption of a family dwelling unit (own/rent) should be less than 300 units.
Family in municipal areas who owns less than 750 sq. ft. of builtup area. 
No family member should be an income tax payee.
One pension will be allowed in the family except in the following conditions: 

    a)   Family having a disabled person with 80% and above degree of disability. 
    b)   Dialysis patients (CKDU) / Severe Mental Retardation/ PLHIV (ART). 
    c)   Pensions sanctioned vide GO Rt.No.551 HM&amp;FW Department, dated 2019 and Memo No: 3033401/D1/2019, of HM&amp;FW Department, dt:> Category Wise Eligibility:


Old Age (ST): 50 years and above.
Old Age (other than ST): 60 years and above.
Widow: 18 Years and above
Disabled (40% and above): No age limit.
Weavers: 50 years and above.
Toddy Tappers: 50 years and above. (Members of Toddy Cooperative Societies (TCS) or to an individual tapper under the Tree For Tappers 
(TFT) Scheme)
ART pensions (PLHIV): 6 months continuous treatment in ART (AntiRetroviral Therapy) Centre. 
Dialysis Pension (CKDU): No age limit. Every month Dialysis treatment taken at Government / Private Hospitals. 
Transgender: 18 Years and above.
Fishermen: 50 Years and above.
Single Women (Rural): 30 years and above.
Single Women (Urban): 35 years and above.
Dappu Artists: 50 years and above.
Traditional Cobblers: 40 years and above.
For persons with diseases of Thalassemia Major, Sickle Cell disease, Severe Haemophilia (&lt;2% of factor 8 or 9) Bilateral ElephantiasisGrade 4: No age limit. 
For persons with diseases of Paralysis confining the person to a wheelchair or bed and Severe muscular dystrophy cases and accident victims confined to wheelchairs or beds: No age limit.
Chronic Kidney Disease patients (Stage3,4 &amp;5) who are not on dialysis and are having the conditions given below: No age limit.

   a)    Serum creatinine of &gt;5mg Consistently on two separate occasions with at least 3 months gap (in Government lab).
   b)    Small contacted kidney on sonographic evaluation (less than 8cm) 
   c)    Estimated GFR &lt;15 ml. 


> Reservation / Preference / Priority:


SC households. 
Practicing Artisans (Weavers, Toddy Tappers, Barbers, Washer men, 
Potters, Blacksmith, Carpenter, Cobbler, Animal herders, Village Artists, etc) and other Back Ward Classes. 
Daily laborers (Daily wage laborers, Agricultural Labourers, Migrated laborers). 
Nomadic Tribes have no permanent residence. 
Households with destitute / orphans. 
Households with Disabled. 
Other poor Households. For more information, please refer to: Guidelines: https://gramawardsachivalayam.ap.gov.in/GSWS/AdsandGos/assets/go/2019PR-MS174.PDF Tags associated with the scheme include: Pension, Person With Disability, Senior Citizen, Transgender, Widow.