The name of this welfare scheme is Pre-matric Scholarship For SC Students - Uttarakhand. It is also known as PMSFSCS. The Social Welfare Department, Uttarakhand offers the Pre Matric Scholarship for students who fall under Scheduled Caste (SC) category. Financial Assistance will be provided to the selected eligible students from the State. The scheme targets beneficiaries such as Individual. It is specifically implemented in Uttarakhand. Additionally, the nodal department is Department Of Social Welfare.

The scheme provides the following benefits: Students of Classes 1 5 will receive Rs. 600/per annum.
Students of Classes 6 8 will receive Rs. 960/per annum.
Day scholar students of Classes 9 10 will receive Rs. 3,000/per annum.
Hostel living students of Classes 9 10 will receive Rs. 6,250/per annum.

Eligibility criteria include: The applicant students should be a resident of Uttarakhand state.
The applicant students should belong to the Scheduled Caste Category.
The applicant students should be studying in a recognized school/institution in the state.
The applicant students must have passed the previous year&#39;s examination.
The Applicant students should not be studying in more than one school in the same academic year.
Scholarship applicants should make sure that the name in the scholarship application, the name mentioned in Aadhaar and the name mentioned in the bank account are the same.
It is necessary for the applicant student to give his or her guardian&#39;s mobile number. The mobile number mentioned in the scholarship application by the student or his/her guardian can be mentioned in the application form by more than one student of the same family. The application process is as follows: Visit the official National Scholarship Portal.Students must register first. So for registration click on New Registration&quot;.
If already register then start the application process by clicking on &quot;login&quot;. 
Fill out the application form and Provide the required details ( Registration Details, Academic Details and Basic Details)
Upload the required documents. For more information, please refer to: Guidelines: https://scholarships.gov.in/public/schemeGuidelines/UK_PRE_GUIDELINE.pdf Scholarship Portal: https://scholarships.gov.in/# Tags associated with the scheme include: Education, Financial Assistance, Scholarship, Student Finance.