The name of this welfare scheme is Assistance for Power Driven Chaff Cutter Scheme under Scheduled Castes Sub Plan (SC Category). It is also known as APDCCSSCSP(SCC). The scheme “Assistance for Power Driven Chaff Cutter Scheme under Scheduled Castes Sub Plan (SC Category)” is implemented by the Directorate of Animal Husbandry, Agriculture, Farmers Welfare and Co-operation Department, Government of Gujarat. Under this scheme, financial assistance is given to dairy farmers belonging to the Scheduled Caste category on purchase of electric powered chaff cutters. By using power driven chaff cutter, dairy farmers can reduce wastage of green and dry fodder which is economically important for their profitable dairy farming. The scheme targets beneficiaries such as Individual. It is specifically implemented in Gujarat. The implementing agency is Department Of Animal Husbandry, District Panchayats, Gujarat. Additionally, the nodal department is Agriculture, Farmers Welfare and Cooperation Department.

The scheme provides the following benefits: Under the scheme, financial assistance up to 75% of the purchase cost of powered chaff cutter or ₹18,000/, whichever is less, is given to beneficiaries of Scheduled Caste category.  

Note: The amount of assistance will be deposited in bank account of the beneficiary.

Eligibility criteria include: The beneficiary should be a permanent resident of Gujarat.
The beneficiary should belong to the Scheduled Caste category.
The beneficiary should have a minimum of five (5) animals of his/her own. The application process is as follows: Step 01: The applicant may visit and apply online at IKhedut Portal: https://ikhedut.gujarat.gov.in/
Step 02: On the home page, click on ‘Schemes’ and then click on ‘Animal Husbandry Schemes’.
Step 03: Now select the scheme, click on the ‘Apply’ button and an application page will open.
Step 04: Click on &amp;quot;Apply New&amp;quot; button and submit a new application.
Step 05: Click on the &amp;quot;Update Application&amp;quot; button to add corrections to the application.
Step 06: Once the application is done, confirm it.
Step 07: Take a print out of the confirmed application.
Step 08: Applicant can also check their Application Status/View/Print/Upload Application details from the below link: https://ikhedut.gujarat.gov.in/public/frmApplicantCorner.aspx 
Note: After sanctioning application through IKhedut Portal, beneficiary has to purchase Chaff Cutter from government approved empanelled vendor and has to produce the bill for claim submission of subsidy. For more information, please refer to: Official Website: https://doah.gujarat.gov.in/fodder-development-guj.htm Scheme Details (Page No. 7): https://doah.gujarat.gov.in/Images/animalhusbandary/pdf/English-for-Fodder-Development.pdf I-Khedut Portal: https://ikhedut.gujarat.gov.in/ Tags associated with the scheme include: Chaff Cutter, Dairy Farming, Farmer, Scheduled Caste, Subsidy.