The name of this welfare scheme is Indira Gandhi Shehri Credit Card Yojana. It is also known as IGSCCY. The scheme targets street vendors, people providing essential services in the informal sector such as hair dressers, rickshaw-pullers, potters, eaters, cobblers, mechanics, tailors, washermen, paint-painters, plumbing-electric repairmen, etc. and the unemployed. financially empowering the youth Provide and restore. The scheme targets beneficiaries such as Individual. It is specifically implemented in Rajasthan. Additionally, the nodal department is Employment Department.

The scheme provides the following benefits: Providing interestfree loan facility up to Rs.50,000/(fifty thousand). 
To promote the development of small businesses in the informal sector. 
To encourage selfemployment. 
To make available financial resources for daytoday needs. 
Mitigating the impact of COVID19 on the informal business sector.
This scheme will pave the way for the development and promotion of the economy by helping 5 lakh beneficiaries working in the informal business sector of Rajasthan state.

Eligibility criteria include: The applicant must be a permanent resident of Rajasthan.
The age of the applicant should be between 18 to 40 years.
To get the benefit of this scheme, the monthly income of the applicant should be Rs 15,000/or less.
The monthly income of the applicant&#39;s family should be Rs. 50,000 or less.
All those small traders who have been provided with a certificate or identity card by the urban body are also eligible for this scheme.
Traders left out in the survey or beneficiary Wonder with a recommendation letter from Town Vending Committee will also be eligible for this scheme.
The vendors selected during the survey will also be eligible for this scheme. (To whom a certificate or identity card has not been issued) The application process is as follows: Applicants can apply through eMitra centre on the online web portal of the scheme or through own S.S.O. Application or through concerned urban body office. The applications received on the portal will be verified by the concerned nodal officer in 07 working days. For more information, please refer to: Guidelines: https://jankalyanfile.rajasthan.gov.in//Content/UploadFolder/Scheme/LBD/IGSCCY/DOC_784_04d64203-feac-4d7f-9dfd-5e34ab8534a7.pdf Tags associated with the scheme include: Covid, Empowerment, Financial Assistance, Unemployment.