The name of this welfare scheme is Schedule Tribe Pre-Metric Scholarship Class 06 To 08. It is also known as STPMSC. The Rajasthan government aims to provide educational opportunities to students belonging to Schedule Tribe student, specifically those studying in grades 6 to 8. 
This program targets students from Schedule Tribe whose parents/guardians are not income taxpayers and not getting any other type of scholarship or allowance for study from central, state / public sources. The scheme targets beneficiaries such as Individual. It is specifically implemented in Rajasthan. Additionally, the nodal department is Education (Elementary and Secondary) Department.

The scheme provides the following benefits: For Schedule Caste Boy Students Rs. 75/per month.
For Schedule Caste Girl Students Rs. 125/per month.

Eligibility criteria include: The student should belong to the Scheduled Tribe category.
The student who is studying as a regular student in classes 6 to 8 in schools run by the Central Government, State Government, Municipalities and schools recognized by the Department of Education.
Students whose parents/guardians are not income taxpayers when they are not alive.
The student who is not getting any other type of scholarship or allowance for study from central, state / public sources.
The student who has not failed in the lower class in the last session. If he fails in any year&#39;s examination, his scholarship will be stopped, but if he fails in the same class in the next
If he passes the examination, he will be eligible for the scholarship in the new class from the next session. For this, the student will have to apply for a new scholarship again.
Students who are not living in hostels are run or aided by the Department of Social Justice and Empowerment. The application process is as follows: Applicant to log in to RajSSO Portal using his/her SSOID.If SSOID is not available then the applicant to first register on RajSSO Portal to create SSOID and update SSO Profile at first login.
After successful authentication/login and updation of the SSOID Profile and select the scheme name. 
Select his/her name, the bank account and fill in personal details.
Upload the required document.
Clicking the “SUBMIT” button. For more information, please refer to: Guidelines: https://schemes.rajasthan.gov.in/scheme/detail/268 Tags associated with the scheme include: Education, Financial Assistance, Learning, Student Finance.