The name of this welfare scheme is Rashtriya Parivar Sahayata Yojana. It is also known as RPSY. Under the National Social Assistance Program (NFBS) by the Government of India, Ministry of Rural Development, Department of Rural Development, such members of the families living below the poverty line whose natural/unnatural death, for the purpose of providing social security to the victim&#39;s family Financial aid is provided. The implementation and operation of the scheme is being done by the Government of Madhya Pradesh, Social Justice and Disabled Welfare Department. The scheme targets beneficiaries such as Individual. Additionally, the nodal ministry is Ministry Of Social Justice and Empowerment and the nodal department is Department of Social Justice & Empowerment.

The scheme provides the following benefits: Eligible applicants are entitled to a lump sum grant of Rs. 20,000/

Eligibility criteria include: The deceased’s age should be between 18 to 59 years. 
The deceased should belong to Below Poverty Line. 
The deceased should be the primary breadwinner of the family. The application process is as follows: Applicants have to visit Gram Panchayat/Janpad Panchyat for rural Areas and Nagar Nigam/Nagar Panchayat/Nagar Parishad for urban areas.
Applicants have to get the application form and fill out the application form with the required information. 
Applicants have to submit the application form along with all the necessary documents to the office of 

   Gram Panchayat/Janpad Panchyat for rural areas.
   Nagar Nigam/Nagar Panchayat/Nagar Parishad for urban areas 

On receipt of the application, the application will be sent by the designated officer to the Gram Panchayat in the rural area and to the urban body in the urban area for investigation. 
The application received for the above investigation will be sent to the concerned Designated Officer by the Gram Panchayat in case of rural area and by the concerned urban body in the case of urban area after getting the investigation done by the concerned officer /employee as per the rules.
On being eligible on the basis of the report, the assistance amount will be accepted by the designated officer and the assistance amount will be paid to the concerned person in his bank account, this payment will be done within the time limit of the application date, and the information will be given to the applicant.
On being ineligible on the basis of the report, the application will be rejected by the designated officer and clear information along with the reason will be given to the applicant in the prescribed format. For more information, please refer to: Details: https://socialsecurity.mp.gov.in/nfbs/about.aspx Tags associated with the scheme include: Empowerment, Financial Assistance, Social Justice.