The name of this welfare scheme is "Advance/High Skill Training in Coir" Component of the "Development of Coir" Scheme. It is also known as AHSTC-DC. The &quot;Advance/High Skill Training in Coir&quot; Component of the &quot;Development of Coir&quot; Scheme by the Department of Industries and Commerce, Union Territory of Puducherry, aims to enhance the skills of Coir artisans and interested individuals. The objective is to acquire the latest skills and modern technologies through advanced/high-skilled training available across various locations in India, offering valuable benefits to eligible candidates. The scheme targets beneficiaries such as Individual. It is specifically implemented in Puducherry. Additionally, the nodal department is District Industries Centre Organization.

The scheme provides the following benefits: Trainees receive a stipend of ₹2,500 per month.
Accommodation charges for trainees are ₹500 per month.
Travelling allowance covers toandfro 2nd class sleeper train fare.
Full course fees are paid to the training units/institutions as prescribed.

Eligibility criteria include: The applicant must either be a native of Puducherry or have been a continuous resident for the past 3 years.
The age limit for applicants is between 18 to 35 years.
Educational qualifications should meet the standards specified by the Training Units/Institutions.
Candidates who have already undergone this training are not eligible to apply. The application process is as follows: Step 1: The interested applicant should take print of the prescribed format of the application form.
Step 2: In the application form, fill in all the mandatory fields, paste the passportsized photograph (signed across, if required), and attach copies of all the mandatory documents (selfattest, if required).
Step 3: The interested applicant should visit (on a working day, and during office hours) the Project Manager (Cottage Industries) of the District Industries Centre (Thattanchavady, Puducherry 605 009), and submit the duly filled and signed application form and the documents to the concerned authority.
Step 4: On receipt of the application, necessary entries will be made in the application receipt register and a unique number is assigned to the applicant for identifying each applicant which shall be used for all further references and also as acknowledgement for the receipt of the application. Step 1: Visit the Official Website of the eDistrict Portal of the Government of Puducherry.
Step 2: At the top right corner of the home page, click &quot;Login&quot;. In the login screen, click &quot;Register a New Membership&quot;.
Step 3: On the Registration Page, fill in all the mandatory fields: Username, Password, Confirm Password, Personal Details (Full Name, First Name, Email Address, Address, Current Address, Gender, Date of Birth, Mobile Number). Agree to the declaration. Fill in the Captcha Code, and click &quot;Signup&quot;.
Step 4: Visit the Official Website of the eDistrict Portal of the Government of Puducherry.
Step 5: At the top right corner of the home page, click &quot;Login&quot;. In the login screen, provide your Username and Password, fill in the Captcha Code, and click &quot;Sign In&quot;.
Step 6: On the next screen, a list of schemes by the Government of Puducherry will be displayed Departmentwise.
Step 7: Click on the scheme you wish to apply for. You will be taken to its online application form.
Step 8: In the application form, fill in all the mandatory fields (marked with a red asterisk) and upload all the mandatory documents (selfattest if required). 
Step 9: Tick the declaration stating &quot;I hereby declare that the abovementioned details are true and correct as per the best of my Knowledge&quot;. Submit the application and note the application number for tracking your application. The application number will also be received on your Registered Mobile Number / Registered Email ID.
Track Your Application here
 Access the User Manual for Online Application here For more information, please refer to: Guidelines: https://dic.py.gov.in/development-of-coir Citizen's Charter: https://dic.py.gov.in/sites/default/files/citizencharter.pdf Application Form: https://dic.py.gov.in/sites/default/files/coir.doc Contact Us: https://dic.py.gov.in/contact-us Grievance Redressal: https://industry.py.gov.in/grievance-redressal-mechanism Tags associated with the scheme include: Accomodation, Allowance, Coir, Skill, Trainee, Training.