The name of this welfare scheme is Sanction of Enhancement of Marriage Incentive Awards for Marriages Between Persons with Differently Abled and Normal Persons. It is also known as SEMIAMPDNP. The &quot;Sanction of Enhancement of Marriage Incentive Awards for Marriages Between Persons with Differently Abled and Normal Persons&quot; was launched by the Department for Welfare of Differently Abled &amp; Senior Citizens, Andhra Pradesh, has enhanced the marriage incentive award from ₹50,000/- to ₹1,00,000/-. This incentive aims to encourage marriages between differently abled persons and normal persons, fostering social integration and acceptance. The scheme targets beneficiaries such as Individual. It is specifically implemented in Andhra Pradesh. Additionally, the nodal department is Dept of Social Welfare, WCD.

The scheme provides the following benefits: Marriage Incentive of ₹50,000/to ₹1,00,000/.

Eligibility criteria include: A normal person should marry a differently abled person.
The couple should not have availed of the incentive award under this scheme earlier.
The bridegroom and bride must have completed 21 years and 18 years of age respectively at the time of marriage. The application process is as follows: Step 1: The interested applicant should visit (during office hours) the Assistant Director, Welfare of Differently abled and Senior Citizens at district headquarters and request the hard copy of the prescribed format of the application form from the staff exclusively entrusted to issue and collect filledin applications.
Step 2: In the application form, fill in all the mandatory fields, paste the passportsized photograph (signed across, if required), and attach copies of all the mandatory documents (selfattest, if required).
Step 3: Submit the duly filled and signed application form along with the documents to the Assistant Director. 
Step 4: Request a receipt or acknowledgment from the Assistant Director to whom the application has been submitted. Ensure that the receipt contains essential details such as the date and time of submission, and a unique identification number (if applicable).


NOTE: The couple shall be physically present on the date of the verification officer along with a required original certificate and with other details. For more information, please refer to: Guidelines: https://apdascac.ap.gov.in/Schemes/schemedetails/10 Tags associated with the scheme include: Financial Assistance, Person With Disability, Social Welfare.