The name of this welfare scheme is Scheme of Extending Financial Assistance to New Drama Productions. It is also known as SOEFATNDP. The &quot;Scheme of Extending Financial Assistance to New Drama Productions&quot; was launched by the Art &amp; Culture Department, Government. of Tamil Nadu. The scheme aims to encourage the dance-drama art forms and the artists involved in such arts. The scheme provides grants of ₹20,000/- for the production and staging of new Tamil dance dramas based on Tamil arts, literature and culture. It is specifically implemented in Tamil Nadu. Additionally, the nodal department is Art and Culture Department.

The scheme provides the following benefits: Financial Assistance of upto ₹20,000/, based on the quality and sceneries of the social, historical, mythological, dramas selected by the expert committee,
> Number of Instalments

The financial assistance is provided in four instalments: 

30% as the first instalment, given after the selection of the drama by the expert committee.
40% as the second instalment, provided three days before the conduct of the drama.
20% as the third instalment, released on the day when the drama is staged.
10% as the fourth instalment, disbursed after receiving the utilization certificate and certification from the Chartered Accountant.

The Mandram will bear the expenses towards the rent for the auditorium, sound and light, advertisement and invitation. 
The expenses relating to the rehearsal of drama, remuneration to the actors, scenes and settings, etc., have to be borne by the drama institution receiving financial assistance.

Eligibility criteria include: The dramas should reflect the assistance of Tamil art forms, culture, civilization, tradition, society and history. 
The drama should not be staged in advance. 
The drama should not show caste, religious, or political animosity.
No additional dialogues or scenes should be added to the drama scripts without prior approval of the Manram. 
The drama scripts should be selected by the Manram. The application process is as follows: The advertisement is published in the newspapers, calling for applications by the Tamil Nadu Eyal Isai Nataka Mandram.
Step 1: The interested applicant should visit (during office hours) the office Mandram and request a hard copy of the prescribed format of the application form from the concerned staff.
Step 2: In the application form, fill in all the mandatory fields, paste the passportsized photograph (signed across, if required), and attach copies of all the mandatory documents (selfattest, if required).
Step 3: Submit the duly filled and signed application form along with the documents to the Tamil Nadu Eyal Isai Nataka Mandram. 
Step 4: Request a receipt or acknowledgement from the concerned authority to whom the application has been submitted. Ensure that the receipt contains essential details such as the date and time of submission, and a unique identification number (if applicable). For more information, please refer to: Guidelines: https://www.tn.gov.in/rti/proactive/inftour/handbook_artculture.pdf Tags associated with the scheme include: Artist, Drama, Financial Assistance, Production, Troupes.