The name of this welfare scheme is Opening And Running Junior Colleges For VJNT Students Run By Voluntary Agencies. It is also known as ORJCVSRVA. The Govt. of Maharashtra vide G.R. dated 26/6/2008 has started (11th and 12th class) Junior College education by upgrading the 148 secondary Ashram Schools for educational and social development of Vimukta Jatis and Nomadic Tribes (VJNT) students. The scheme “Opening and Running Junior Colleges for VJNT Students Run by Voluntary Agencies” is implemented by the Social Justice and special assistance department in Maharashtra. Under this scheme, the government provides academic educational facilities, free lodging, and boarding in Junior Colleges. It also provides medical facilities, bedding and clothing, and uniforms to residential students. This scheme is implemented on a grant-in-aid basis to voluntary organizations. The scheme targets beneficiaries such as Individual. It is specifically implemented in Maharashtra. The implementing agency is Assistant Commissioner Social Welfare Of Concerned District. Additionally, the nodal department is Social Justice and Special Assistance Department.

It falls under the categories: Education & Learning, Social welfare & Empowerment.

Eligibility criteria include: Students should be residents of Maharashtra.
Students should belong to VJNT Category.
Voluntary Agency should have running Secondary Ashram School.
The result of Secondary School should not below than 60%.
Voluntary Agencies should be economically sound to run Junior Colleges.
Building, Water supply, Electricity etc. facilities should be available.
Most of Population should be VJNT nearby School place.
There should not be more Junior Colleges around the Ashram School.
There should not be any dispute / Court matter against the Voluntary Agency. For more information, please refer to: Website: https://sjsa.maharashtra.gov.in/en/scheme-category/education-training?&Submit=Submit&page=1 Tags associated with the scheme include: Ashram School, Education, Junior College, Student, Vimukta Jatis And Nomadic Tribes.