The name of this welfare scheme is Revised Education Scheme For Children Of Artisans/Weavers Of Handicrafts And Handloom Departments. It is also known as RESCAW. A scholarship scheme by the Industries and Commerce Dept., Govt. of Jammu and Kashmir to provide financial support to the children of Artisans/Weavers of Handicrafts and Handloom Depts. in completion of education. The scholarship shall be provided to a maximum of two children of Weaver/Artisan. The payment shall be made on Direct Benefit Transfer (DBT) to the student. ₹1500 per year up to primary education; ₹ 2000 per year for Classes 6th to 10th; ₹ 3000 per year for Classes 11th and 12th; As per actual course fee fixed by the Government for Technical/Professional Courses. The scheme targets beneficiaries such as Individual. It is specifically implemented in Jammu and Kashmir. The implementing agency is Directorate Of Handicrafts & Handloom. Additionally, the nodal department is Department Of Industries and Commerce.

It falls under the categories: Education & Learning.

Eligibility criteria include: The parent of the applicant should be a Weaver/Artisan.
The parent should be registered with the Handicrafts and Handloom Departments having valid registration car/certificate.
The applicant should not have availed benefits under the following schemes being implemented by the departments: PreMatric Scholarship Scheme; PostMatric Scholarship Scheme; Prime Minister&#39;s Scholarship Scheme; Any other scheme. The applicant shall seek NOC from the concerned Zonal Educational Officer and Tehsil Social Welfare Officer.
The applicant should fulfill one of the following conditions:


The applicant should have a Below Poverty Line (BPL) Card, Antyodaya Anna Yojana (AAY) Ration Card, Priority Household (PHH) Card.
The applicant should have Economically Weaker Section (EWS) Certificate.
The total annual income of the parents of the applicant should be less than or equal to ₹90,The Income Certificate should be issued by 1st Class Magistrate/Tehsildar concerned. For more information, please refer to: Guidelines: http://jkindustriescommerce.nic.in/Orders%202022/80%20IND%20OF%202022.pdf Tags associated with the scheme include: Artisan, Financial Assistance, Scholarship, Student.