The name of this welfare scheme is Free Education For Sports Medal Winners / Participants Of National/ International Events. It is also known as FESMWPNIE. INTRODUCTION 
Sports are not an only institutional competitive activity but also help in educating the youths regarding their behavior and their qualities to help in their social and emotional adjustment with the society at large irrespective of culture, religion, or beliefs. It is not only a method of recreational growth and development but also helps in the integration of youth with the country’s social order.


To bring laurels to the country and for personal and professional development in sports, the youth have to not only spend their time but also their limited resources to excel. It would be imperative that the country as a whole supports its efforts financially so that resources are not a constraint to their education and sports development.


AIMS AND OBJECTIVES
1.   The objective of the scheme is to provide financial assistance to the medal winners\ elite sports persons who are studying in Universities/Colleges leading to all the full-time regular courses including PG Diploma and other professional courses. 
2.   To motivate the sports persons to achieve higher levels of performance by assisting them financially in relation to education and sports development. 
The scheme would be applicable to sportspersons who are medal winners in national games or 
participants in recognized international sporting events. The scheme targets beneficiaries such as Individual. The implementing agency is University Grants Commission (UGC). Additionally, the nodal ministry is Ministry of Education and the nodal department is Department Of Higher Education.

It falls under the categories: Education & Learning, Sports & Culture.

Eligibility criteria include: (i) The Scholarship will be provided to the Medal winners of National games and participants in recognized international sporting events recognized by the World University Service, International Olympic Committee, and Olympic Committee of Asia (OCA) who have taken admitted to the Universities/Colleges/Institutions as indicated below: 

Universities/Institutions/Colleges included under sections 2(f) and 12(b) of the UGC Act, Deemed to be Universities under section 3 of the UGC Act, 1956 which are eligible to receive grants 
in aid from UGC. 
Universities/Institutions/Colleges funded by Central/ State Govt. 
Institutes of National Importance. 

(ii) In the subsequent years this scholarship shall depend on their subsequent sports performance. For more information, please refer to: Guidelines: https://www.ugc.ac.in/oldpdf/xiiplanpdf/medal-winners-guidelines.pdf Tags associated with the scheme include: Education, Sports.