The name of this welfare scheme is Animal Husbandry. It is also known as AHTN. The “Animal Husbandry” scheme by the Adi Dravidar and Tribal Welfare Department, Tamil Nadu, offers Adi Dravidar and Tribal beneficiaries various forms of support, including a 50% to 75% subsidy on sheep units, milch animals, and calves. Additionally, the scheme ensures the animals receive proper health cover, artificial insemination services, and other veterinary care.
&lt;br&gt;

&lt;br&gt; The scheme targets beneficiaries such as Individual. It is specifically implemented in Tamil Nadu. Additionally, the nodal department is Adi Dravidar and Tribal Welfare Department.

The scheme provides the following benefits: Subsidy: Subsidy of 50% to 75% on sheep units, milch animals, and calves.  Health Care Facility for Animals: Provision of health care and veterinary services.  Others: Artificial insemination for animals to improve breeding.
&lt;br&gt;

Eligibility criteria include: The beneficiary should be a resident of Tamil Nadu.
The beneficiary should be a Farmer.
The beneficiary should belong to the Adi Dravidar/Tribal community. The application process is as follows: Step 1: The interested applicant should collect the application form from the office of the Director of Adi Dravidar and the Tribal Welfare Officer/ Director of the Animal Husbandry Department or the Veterinary Hospital.
Step 2: In the application form, fill in all the mandatory fields, paste the passportsized photograph (signed across, if required), and attach copies of all the mandatory documents (selfattest, if required).
Step 3: Submit the duly filled and signed application form along with the documents to the concerned department.
Step 4: Request a receipt or acknowledgment from the concerned authority to whom the application has been submitted. Ensure that the receipt contains essential details such as the date and time of submission, a unique identification number (if applicable). For more information, please refer to: Guidelines: https://www.tn.gov.in/scheme/data_view/26799 Tags associated with the scheme include: Animal Husbandry, Animals Health Cover, Artificial Insemination, Distribution Of Sheep Units, Tribal Welfare.