The name of this welfare scheme is 60% and above Disability Allowances. It is also known as 60ADA. &quot;60% and Disability Allowance&quot; is a pension scheme by the Directorate of Social Welfare and Social Education, Government of Tripura. The scheme aims to provide financial assistance in the form of a monthly pension of ₹2,000/- to differently-abled persons with a disability of 60% and above. The applicant should be submitted in person to the Child Development Project Officer. The scheme targets beneficiaries such as Individual. It is specifically implemented in Tripura. Additionally, the nodal department is Directorate Of Social Welfare & Social Education.

The scheme provides the following benefits: Pension of ₹2,000/per month.

Eligibility criteria include: The applicant should be a resident of Tripura.
The applicant should be a Person with Disability.
The percentage of disability should be 60% and above.
The applicant&#39;s age should be 10 years and above.
The family income of the applicant should be ₹1,00,000/per annum.
None of the family members of the applicant should be a government employee. The application process is as follows: The applications would be invited from the eligible candidates by giving wide publicity through print media and electronic media.
Step 1: The interested applicant should visit (during office hours) the Office of the Child Development Project Officer (CDPO) of the concerned area and request a hard copy of the prescribed format of the application form from the staff exclusively entrusted to issue and collect filledin applications.
OR
The interested applicant should take print of the prescribed format of the application form.
Step 2: In the application form, fill in all the mandatory fields, paste the passportsized photograph (signed across, if required), and attach copies of all the mandatory documents (selfattest, if required).
Step 3: Submit the duly filled and signed application form along with the documents to the CDPO.
Step 4: Request a receipt or acknowledgement from the concerned authority to whom the application has been submitted. Ensure that the receipt contains essential details such as the date and time of submission, and a unique identification number (if applicable). For more information, please refer to: Citizen's Charter: https://socialwelfare.tripura.gov.in/sites/default/files/Citizen%20Charter.pdf Revised Rate Of Pension: Notification for Revised Monthly Rate of Social Security Pension Scheme w.e.f. 1st Sep. 2022_01.pdf Tags associated with the scheme include: Allowance, Disability, Pension, PwD, Social Welfare.