The name of this welfare scheme is Kala Gaurav Puraskar. It is also known as KGP-GOA. &quot;Kala Gaurav Puraskar&quot; by the Directorate of Art and Culture, Government of Goa, is presented to artists working in the field of Art and Culture who have given outstanding contributions in their respective fields of art. Such artists need to be felicitated and their substantial contribution needs to be recognized.


> Objectives


1. To give State recognition to those artists who have given substantial contributions in the field of Art and Culture.
1. To felicitate the artists for their lifetime achievements in the field of Art and Culture.
1. To recognize and appreciate the age-old talent of the artists. The scheme targets beneficiaries such as Individual. It is specifically implemented in Goa. Additionally, the nodal department is Art, Culture and Museums Department.

The scheme provides the following benefits: The awardee shall be felicitated with a shawl, shrifal, a certificate of appreciation and a financial purse to the extent of ₹ 25,000/per individual.
Every year maximum of 30 cases shall be considered as per the availability of funds.

Eligibility criteria include: The applicant should be an individual artist.
The applicant should be 60 years of age.
The applicant should have given a substantial contribution in his/her respective field of art.
The applicant should have contributed in his/her respective field of art in Goa for a minimum of 10 years out of his/her entire career as a practising artist. The application process is as follows: Step 1: The interested applicant should visit the Directorate Of Art &amp; Culture, Government of Goa, 5th Floor, Shram Shakti Bhavan, Panaji, Patto, Panaji, Goa 403001
Step 2: Take a print of the proforma of the application form of the respective scheme, or request a hard copy from the concerned authority.
Step 3: In the application form, fill in all the mandatory fields, paste the passportsized photograph (signed across), and attach copies of all the mandatory documents (selfattest if required).
Step 4: Submit the duly filled and signed application form along with the documents to the ACOIII, Directorate of Art &amp; Culture, Phone: 08322404606, Email: aco6dac.goa@nic.in.


> Application Deadline

Within 30 days from the date of advertisement in the Newspaper. For more information, please refer to: Citizen's Charter: https://www.goa.gov.in/wp-content/uploads/2022/06/Chitizen-Charter-2022-2023-art-and-culture.pdf Application Form: https://www.goa.gov.in/wp-content/uploads/2022/06/Kala-Gaurav-Puraskar-2022-23-Online-Form.pdf Tags associated with the scheme include: Art, Award, Culture, Financial Assistance, Lifetime Achievement.