The name of this welfare scheme is Schedule Caste Pre-Metric Scholarship Class 06 To 08. It is also known as SCPMSC. The Rajasthan government aims to provide educational opportunities to students belonging to Schedule Caste student, specifically those studying in grades 6 to 8. 
This program targets students from Schedule caste whose parents/guardians are not income taxpayers and not getting any other type of scholarship or allowance for study from central, state / public sources. The scheme targets beneficiaries such as Individual. It is specifically implemented in Rajasthan. Additionally, the nodal department is Education (Elementary and Secondary) Department.

The scheme provides the following benefits: For Schedule Caste Boy Students Rs. 75/per month.
For Schedule Caste Girl Students Rs. 125/per month.

Eligibility criteria include: The student should belong to the Scheduled Caste category.
The student should study as a regular student in classes 6 to 8 in schools run by the Central Government, State Government, Municipalities and schools recognized by the Department of Education.
Student guardians should not be income taxpayers in case of parent(s) are not alive. 
The students who are not getting any other type of scholarship or allowance for study from central, state / public sources.
The student who has not failed in the lower class in the last session. If he fails in the examination of any year, his scholarship will be stopped, but if he passes the same class in the next examination, he will be eligible for scholarship in the new class from the next session. For this, the student will have to apply for a new scholarship again. The application process is as follows: Applicant to log in to RajSSO Portal using his/her SSOID.If SSOID is not available then the applicant to first register on RajSSO Portal to create SSOID and update SSO Profile at first login.
After successful authentication/login and updation of the SSOID Profile and select the scheme name. 
Select his/her name, the bank account and fill in personal details.
Upload the required document.
Clicking the “SUBMIT” button. For more information, please refer to: Guidelines: https://schemes.rajasthan.gov.in/scheme/detail/267 Online Application: https://sso.rajasthan.gov.in/register Office Order: https://rajshaladarpan.nic.in/sd2/ShowFile.aspx?oid=632add2412a7ed45e8e6ea69 Tags associated with the scheme include: Education, Empowerment, Encourage, Financial Assitance.