The name of this welfare scheme is Mukhyamantri Baristha Bunakar and Karigara Sahayata Yojana. It is also known as MBBKSY. The &amp;quot;Mukhyamantri Baristha Bunakar and Karigara Sahayata Yojana&amp;quot; is a welfare scheme initiated by the Handlooms, Textiles and Handicrafts Department, Government of Odisha to provide financial assistance to elderly individuals involved in weaving and craft work, who may face economic difficulties.
Objective:- 

   1. To provide social security to the baristha bunakar and karigar of the state &amp;amp; to ensure them a decent level of living.
   1. To enable him/her free from additional financial burden due to illness, injury, need for care, unemployment &amp;amp; other unforeseen expenses, etc.
   1. To take care of old age and other consequences resulting therefrom.

Note: The Directorate of Textiles, Odisha and Directorate of Handicrafts, Odisha shall be the implementing agency of this scheme. The scheme targets beneficiaries such as Individual. It is specifically implemented in Odisha. The implementing agency is The Directorate Of Textiles, Odisha And Directorate Of Handicrafts. Additionally, the nodal department is Textiles and Handloom Department.

The scheme provides the following benefits: The financial assistance for weavers &amp;amp; ancillary workers /handicraft artisan shall be as follows:
S.NoCategoryAge of the BeneficiaryQuantum of Assistance (in Rs.)1FemaleMore than 40 years to less than 80 years20002MaleMore than 50 years to less than 80 years20003Both Female &amp;amp;amp;amp; Male80 years or more2500

Eligibility criteria include: He/ She must be a permanent resident/domicile of Odisha.
   Weavers &amp;amp; Ancillary Workers and Handicraft Artisans to be eligible for assistance under the scheme should be 40 years &amp;amp; above in case of female and 50 years &amp;amp; above in case of male.
   His/ Her name must be in the final list of weavers &amp;amp; ancillary workers and artisans as per the latest survey. The National awardees, Stale awardees, Kalakruti awardees, Tantakruti Awardees including Design/ Merit certificate awardees in Handloom &amp;amp; Handicraft sectors will also be eligible irrespective of their names placed in the above survey list, if they are otherwise eligible. The beneficiaries out of above survey list may be screened further by HT&amp;amp;H Department officials in the district or other such officer as would be appointed by the District Collector.
   Only one member of the family shall be eligible to get the assistance under this Scheme irrespective of the number of family members fulfilling the eligibility criteria.
   The annual income of the family should not exceed Rs. 1,00,000/(Rupees One Lakh) The Income Certificate issued by Concerned Tahasildar/ Additional Tahasildar or any other competent authority of Revenue Department is acceptable.
   Govt. employees, lncome Tax payers, Retired Govt. employees of Govt. of India and/or any State Government will not be eligible to get the assistance from the scheme.
   A Handloom weaver/ Ancillary worker/ Handicraft Artisan wilt not be eligible if he/ she is availing similar benefits under any other scheme of the State Government like Madhubabu Pension Yojana, Mukhyamantri Kalakar Sahayata Yojana, etc., and any other scheme of Government of India.
   A Handloom weaver/ Ancillary worker/ Handicraft Artisan will not be eligible if he/ she has been convicted of any criminal offence.
   Financial Assistance under this scheme to a beneficiary shall be effective from the date of approval of District Level Selection Committee. The application process is as follows: Application in the prescribed format (Annexurel) along with required documents shall be submitted to The Director of Textiles &amp;amp; Handlooms and the Director of Handicrafts   After required scrutiny the qualified applications shall be placed before the District Level Selection Committee on quarterly basis. Beneficiary once enrolled and received assistance under this scheme, need not apply again. For more information, please refer to: Guidelines: https://handloom.odisha.gov.in/sites/default/files/2024-04/Mukhyamantri%20Baristha%20Bunakar%20o%20Karigara%20Sahayata%20Yojana%20%28MBBKSY%29.pdf Tags associated with the scheme include: Baristha Bunakar, Financial Assistance, Karigara Sahayata, Senior Artisans And Weavers.