The name of this welfare scheme is Award of Opportunity Cost to Parents of Scheduled Caste Girl Students. It is also known as AOCPSCGS. The scheme “Award of Opportunity Cost to Parents of Scheduled Caste Girl Students” was implemented by the Adi Dravidar Welfare Department, Government of Puducherry to financially assist the Scheduled Caste parents for sending school their daughters who otherwise earn livelihood for the family engaging themselves in menial labour.
&gt; Objective:

The objective of the scheme is to eliminate the Scheduled Caste girl child labour and encourage Scheduled Castes parents to send their girl children to educational institutions by paying opportunity cost in lieu of the income shortage suffered by them. The scheme targets beneficiaries such as Individual. It is specifically implemented in Puducherry. The implementing agency is Adi Dravidar Welfare Department, Union Territory Of Puducherry. Additionally, the nodal department is Adi Dravidar Welfare Department, Puducherry.

The scheme provides the following benefits: Under this scheme, ₹3,000/per academic year is payable to the Scheduled Caste parent for each daughter studying in classes VI to XII standard.

Note 01: The opportunity cost is payable to the parents of the Scheduled Caste girl in addition to the PreMatric Scholarship payable to the children.
Note 02: The opportunity cost is not payable in respect of girls readmitted in a class for a second academic year, owing to failure or discontinuance in the class previously.

Eligibility criteria include: The student should be a girl student studying in Class VI Standard to XII Standard of a Government or Government recognized educational institution in the Union Territory of Puducherry.
   The students should belong to the Scheduled Caste community.
   The girl student and her parent/guardian should be a native of the Union Territory of Puducherry either by virtue of birth or by continuous residence	for a period of not less than 3 years.
   The annual income of the parents shall not be more than ₹24,000/.

Note: The opportunity cost is payable to the parents only if girl students have been promoted to the next higher class. The application process is as follows: Step 01: The students applying for the scholarship for the first time need to &amp;quot;Register&amp;quot; using the icon “New Registration” at the NSP Portal URL https://scholarships.gov.in/, by providing accurate and correct information as per their documents.
Step 02: After successfully get registration done, students will get their “Student Registration ID”.
Step 03: Through “Student Registration ID” students will be able to login into the account using the icon “Fresh Application” at NSP Portal.
Step 04: After successful login to the portal, the welcome page appeared. On clicking the “Application Form” icon, students will be directed to the application screen.
Step 05: Now, the students may fill out the complete application form and on clicking the “Final Submit” button, the application is finally submitted.
Step 06: On successful submission of the application, a systemgenerated registration number is sent to the students which can be used for future reference. For more information, please refer to: Official Website: https://www.py.gov.in/award-opportunity-cost-parents-sc-girl-students Scheme Guideline: https://scholarships.gov.in/public/schemeGuidelines/Puducherry/Pudu_3020_G.pdf Scheme Details: https://www.py.gov.in/sites/default/files/adwaward-opportunity-cost-parents-s.c.girl-students.pdf Tags associated with the scheme include: Girl, Opportunity Cost, Parents, Scheduled Cast, Student.