The name of this welfare scheme is ICAR Senior Research Fellowship For Post-Graduate Studies In Agricultural Sciences. It is also known as ICAR-SRF-PGS. ICAR awards a certain number of Senior Research Fellowships for Ph.D. in an Agricultural University (AU), in different disciplines of agriculture and allied sciences. This is done to encourage talented students to undertake higher agricultural education.


In order to address the emerging challenges of agricultural research and education, the ICAR supports specific time-bound schemes/projects. The schemes/projects generally have provisions for time-bound/non-regular/ contractual engagement of manpower, contingencies, and limited need-based traveling allowance (TA), besides other specifically needed provisions for a particular scheme/project. In supersession of all previous guidelines, the following guidelines are formulated to regulate all aspects relating to engagement, emoluments, and terms and conditions of Senior Research Fellows and Research Associates working in ICAR schemes. The scheme targets beneficiaries such as Individual. The implementing agency is Indian Council Of Agricultural Research. Additionally, the nodal ministry is Ministry Of Agriculture and Farmers Welfare and the nodal department is Department of Agriculture Research and Education.

It falls under the categories: Education & Learning.

Eligibility criteria include: Method of Award
ICARSRF (PGS) will be awarded on the basis of merit in the All India Competitive Entrance Examination for (i) ICARSRF (PGS), and
(ii) concurrent admission to Master’s degree program at a) State Agricultural Universities (SAUs), and
    b) Deemed Universities viz. IARI (New Delhi) / IVRI (Izatnagar) / NDRI (Karnal) / CIFE (Mumbai) / AAU (Allahabad), Central Agricultural University (Imphal, Manipur), and 
    c) Central Universities having faculty of agriculture viz. Banaras Hindu University (BHU), Aligarh Muslim University (AMU), Visva Bharti, and Nagaland University, collectively hereinafter referred to as the Agricultural Universities (AUs). 


Eligibility

Candidates having completed their Master’s degree program with a minimum of 55% marks or an OGPA of 5/00 or 75/00 or 20/00 or an equivalent OGPA from any recognized University in India and abroad would be eligible. For SC/ST and Physically Handicapped (PH) candidates, the minimum percentage of marks will be relaxed by 5 percent or an equivalent OGPA. The equivalence of OGPA to percent marks, where needed, will be certified by the Registrar of the concerned University. Candidates appearing in the final semester would also be eligible provided they complete their postgraduate degree in all respects by the date of examination and produce the complete degree certificate from the Registrar to this effect. 
The fellowship would be granted only when the candidate gets eventually admitted and pursues a Ph.D. degree in an Agricultural University(AU) other than the Agricultural University(AU) from where the candidate has completed M.Sc./M.V.Sc./ M.E./M.Tech. degree. 
The upper age limit would be 30 years as of the date of the examination. For SC/ST &amp; PH categories, the upper age limit will be relaxed by 5 years. For OBC the upper age limit will be relaxed by 3 years. For inservice candidates of Agricultural Universities (AU), the upper age limit would be 45 years as of the date of examination whereas, the academic performance requirement would remain as stated above. 



NOTE 1: Reservation of various categories such as SC/ST/OBC and PH etc. will be given as per Government of India rules/instructions issued from time to time. The responsibility of verification of the genuineness of SC/ST/OBC and PH certificates will solely rest with the concerned Agricultural University (AU) where the candidate has been recommended for admission or granted provisional admission.


NOTE 2: The ICARSRF (PGS) will NOT be available for admission in any university other than the AUs as mentioned above. For more information, please refer to: Guidelines: https://www.icar.org.in/files/edu/Guidelines-SRF-and-RA-in-ICAR-scheme-notified.pdf Fellowship Rates: https://icar.org.in/files/Fellowship-rates.pdf Notice: https://nta.ac.in/Download/Notice/Notice_20220720183505.pdf Tags associated with the scheme include: Agriculture, Fellowship, Research.