The name of this welfare scheme is Tool Kit Grant for Traditional Handicrafts Experts. It is also known as TKGTHE. &gt; Introduction:

A sizeable population of OBCs is engaged in traditional occupations like handicrafts, jewellery making, metalwork, weaving, etc. Due to these low-paid occupations and due to modern technological intervention they face tough competition in the market which creates a feeling of inferiority and incapacity threatening their very existence. In order to have the traditional occupation as a sustainable self-employment and income-generating source for the families of traditional craftsmen their traditional skills need to be upgraded and they need to be equipped with modern technology to meet the market demands. The scheme is intended for the above purpose of improving the productivity and competitiveness of the traditional OBC craftsmen ensuring quality goods for enhanced income and thereby qualitative improvement in their living conditions.
    There are several craftsman communities among OBCs such as Viswakarma, Padmasaliya chekkala etc. The Scheme envisages providing modern skill training and Tool  Kits for these groups.
&gt; Aims/Objectives:

1.	To create awareness among the skilled and semiskilled OBC workers on the need to adopt new technology in the highly technological era, for meeting the market needs.
2.	To ensure sustainable self-employment for fair livelihood.
3.	To ensure social justice through the overall economic development of the traditional craftsmen communities.
&gt; Implementation:

The Director, the Backward Communities Development Department will implement the scheme through Regional Deputy Directors of the Department. Tie-up shall be made with KSBCDC for training and loan for the scheme.
&gt; Monitoring and Evaluation:

The Director, BCDD will monitor and evaluate the scheme periodically.
&gt; Traditional craftsmen community:

1.	Viswakaramas (Asari Chaptegra, Kallassary, Kalthachan, Kammala, Kamsala, Kannan, Karuvan, Kitaran, Kollan, Malayala Kammala, Moosari, Pandikammala, Pandithattan, Perumkolllan, Thachan, Thattan, Vilkurup, Villasan, Viswabrahmanan or Viswabrahmanar and Viswakarmala)
2.	Saliya, Chaliya (Chaliya)
3.	Tholkollans
4.	Moopar or Kallan Mooppan or Kallan Mooppar. The scheme targets beneficiaries such as Individual. It is specifically implemented in Kerala. The implementing agency is Regional Deputy Directors Of The Backward Communities Development Department, Kerala. Additionally, the nodal department is Backward Classes Development Department.

The scheme provides the following benefits: The training costs, stipend (if found necessary), and tool kit grant together shall be limited to ₹25000/.
The training and stipend portion is limited to ₹5000/.
The maximum period of training will be three months.
Note 01: The focus will be on machinery and equipment.
Note 02: The tools developed by reputed institutions will be encouraged amongst the craftsmen.
Note 03: The choice of tools and machinery will be based on the occupation.
Note 04: The beneficiaries can freely select whichever agency to procure equipment.
Note 05: The grant is for modernization of traditional occupation i.e. for procurement of modern tools and machinery.
Note 06: The grant should not be used as working capital.

Eligibility criteria include: The applicant should be a permanent resident of the Kerala State.
The applicant should belong to the State Backward Communities of Kerala State.
The applicant should be engaged in traditional craftwork/skilled work.
The upper age limit of the applicant should be 60 years.
The annual family income of the applicant should be ₹1,00,000/.
Note 01: Those having more than two girl children shall get preference.
Note 02: The differently abled person shall get preference.
Note 03: Those having more than 10 years of experience shall get preference. The application process is as follows: Step 01: The application will be invited through public notification in all the leading news dailies. If it is necessary an advertisement will be published.
Step 02: The applicants should apply in the prescribed form with all relevant documents and submit it to the Regional Deputy Director.
Step 03: On receipt of the applications, the scrutiny will be carried out at the Regional level.
Step 04: A draft list will be prepared on the basis of certificates and preliminary field inquiries. This will be subjected to further scrutiny by the Director, BCDD and a final list will be drawn up.
Step 05: Those selected will undergo training in their respective field of work if it is necessary.
Note 01: The training will be arranged in various localities of the state according to the number of applicants.
Note 02: Those who successfully complete the training or those who already have the competency to adopt the new technology for each work will be selected for a tool kit grant. The choice of tools will be vested with the applicant.
Note 03: The cash bill for the tools purchased has to be submitted to the Department and the Department will reimburse the eligible amount to the concerned beneficiaries.
&gt; Address for applying:

Applicants from Trivandrum to Ernakulam:
Regional Deputy Director, Backward Classes Development Department
Civil Station, 2nd Floor, Kakkanad
Ernakulam682030
Applicants from Thrissur to Kasargode:
Regional Deputy Director, Backward Classes Development Department
Civil Station, Kozhikide673020 For more information, please refer to: Official Website: https://bcdd.kerala.gov.in/en/schemes/development-schemes/toolkit-grant/ Guidelines: https://bcdd.kerala.gov.in/wp-content/uploads/2018/11/8-02.pdf Application Form: https://bcdd.kerala.gov.in/wp-content/uploads/2018/11/8-01.pdf Agreement Model: https://bcdd.kerala.gov.in/wp-content/uploads/2018/11/8-03.pdf Tags associated with the scheme include: Craftsman, Grant, Handicrafts, OBC, Self-employment, Stipend, Tool Kit, Training.