The name of this welfare scheme is "Advanced Training in Handicrafts" Component of the "Development of Handicrafts" Scheme. It is also known as ATIHCDOHS. The &quot;Advanced Training in Handicrafts&quot; Component of the &quot;Development of Handicrafts&quot; Scheme is introduced by the Department of Industries and Commerce, Union Territory of Puducherry, to provide advanced training to individuals seeking to master exquisite craft skills. Through this scheme, candidates will be sponsored for training in other states where the craft is practised to its finest. The training program focuses on enhancing craft skills, enabling participants to acquire advanced techniques and proficiency in their chosen craft. The scheme targets beneficiaries such as Individual. It is specifically implemented in Puducherry. Additionally, the nodal department is Industries and Commerce Department, Puducherry.

The scheme provides the following benefits: Course Fee: as Prescribed by the Training Institution.Stipend: ₹2,500/Per Month Per Trainee.Accommodation Charges: ₹500/Per Month Per Trainee.Travelling Allowance: Restricted to toandfro 2nd Class (Berth) Train Fare.Period of Training: As Prescribed by the Training Unit/institution.

Eligibility criteria include: The applicant should be between 18 and 35 years of age.
The applicant should be a native of the Union Territory of Puducherry or a continuous resident for the past three years.
The applicant should possess the education qualification as required by the Training Unit/Institution. The application process is as follows: Step 1: The interested applicant should take print of the prescribed format of the application form.
Step 2: In the application form, fill in all the mandatory fields, paste the passportsized photograph (signed across, if required), and attach copies of all the mandatory documents (selfattest, if required).
Step 3: The interested applicant should visit (on a working day, and during office hours) the Project Manager (Cottage Industries), and submit the duly filled and signed application form and the documents to the concerned authority.
Step 4: On receipt of the application, necessary entries will be made in the application receipt register and a unique number is assigned to the applicant for identifying each applicant which shall be used for all further references and also as acknowledgement for the receipt of the application. For more information, please refer to: Guidelines: https://dic.py.gov.in/development-of-handicrafts Citizen's Charter: https://dic.py.gov.in/sites/default/files/citizencharter.pdf Application Form: https://dic.py.gov.in/application-forms-download-area Contact Us: https://dic.py.gov.in/application-forms-download-area Grievance Redressal: https://industry.py.gov.in/grievance-redressal-mechanism Tags associated with the scheme include: Craft, Handicrafts, Stipend, Trainee, Training.