The name of this welfare scheme is Chief Minister’s Paryatan Siksha Yojana. It is also known as CMPSY. The scheme “Chief Minister’s Paryatan Siksha Yojana” was launched by the Government of Arunachal Pradesh to promote tourism and develop the industry by means of trained individuals. 
         With the increasing demand for skilled manpower in the field of Tourism and hospitality industry, it is imperative to encourage local youths to enroll in such courses. Therefore the Govt. of Arunachal Pradesh is pleased to sponsor students of the state for taking admission in different courses such as Hospitality and Catering, Food Production, Food &amp;amp; Beverage Service, Front Office, Housekeeping, Bakery &amp;amp; Confectionaries, etc. The need for trained professionals was felt for the growth of the Tourism industry in the state. Thus, this scheme was launched to support the training of individuals in the field of tourism. The scheme targets beneficiaries such as Individual. It is specifically implemented in Arunachal Pradesh. The implementing agency is Department Of Tourism, Arunachal Pradesh. Additionally, the nodal department is Tourism Department.

The scheme provides the following benefits: Sponsorship to study and take up courses in the field of tourism.
   The local youths may enroll in courses such as B.Sc. (Hospitality and Catering) and Diploma/PGD courses (Food Production, Food &amp;amp; Beverage Service, Front Office, Housekeeping, Bakery &amp;amp; Confectionaries).
   8 students of the State will be sponsored to take up B. Sc. (H&amp;amp;C) for 3 years degree course in a prestigious Institute recognized by the Ministry of Tourism, Government of India.
   25 students of the State will be sponsored to take up a Diploma course for one and half years in five demanddriven categories being offered by the Food Craft Institute, Nagaon, Assam which is affiliated with National Council for Hotel Management and Catering Technology.

Eligibility criteria include: Any Arunachal Pradesh domicile can apply to avail of the benefit of this scheme.
   The candidate must have passed Class XII in any stream or equivalent for a B.Sc. in Hospitality and Hotel Administration at the Institute of Hotel Management.
   The candidate must have passed Class X or XII in any stream or equivalent for Diploma Course in tourism or hospitality related subject i.e. Food Production, Food &amp;amp; Beverage Service, Front Office, Housekeeping,  Bakery &amp;amp; Confectionaries.
   The candidate must be graduated in any stream for Post Graduate Diploma in tourism or hospitality related subject.
   The merit list will be drawn on the basis of the percentage of marks obtained under the criteria.
   The sponsorship is only for the student of the Scheduled Tribe of Arunachal Pradesh.

&lt;br&gt;

&lt;br&gt; The application process is as follows: Step 01: For taking benefit of this scheme, the applicant needs to visit the nearest District Tourism Office, Arunachal Pradesh.
Step 02: After the published advertisement, the interested candidates may submit their applications in plain paper or a prescribed format with relevant documents at the Directorate of Tourism, Arunachal Pradesh.
Step 03: After successful verification, the students will be selected as per the merit list drawn on the basis of the percentage of marks obtained under the criteria.
Step 04: Further, the applicant will be interviewed and assessed by the District administration (District Tourism Officer) before he/she receives the benefit. For more information, please refer to: Website: https://changlang.nic.in/notice/chief-minister-paryatan-siksha-yojana-ii-govt-sponsored-diploma-course/ Guideline: https://arunachaltourism.com/wp-content/uploads/2022/07/Document-19.pdf Guideline: https://ahvdd.arunachal.gov.in/pdf/eBook/Government%20Scheme%20Handbook.pdf Tags associated with the scheme include: Diploma Course, Professional, Scheduled Tribe, Sponsorship, Tourism, Training.