The name of this welfare scheme is Krishak Bandhu Scheme. It is also known as KBS. The scheme “Krishak Bandhu Scheme” is a flagship scheme of the government of West Bengal and was launched by the Department of Agriculture in 2019. The scheme caters to the farming community by means of assured continuous income and insurance coverage. Further, the scheme seeks to provide the farmers with financial assistance of ₹10000 per year (₹5000 per acre in two installments).
        The financial support under the Scheme is payable in two equal installments, first during Kharif and second during the Rabi season each year.
Scheme objective:
1. To support farmers financially during the pre-production stage by providing production input purchase assistance
2. To give income protection to farm families in case of a farmer’s untimely demise.
Scheme components:
There are two components of the scheme:
1. “Krishak Bandhu” (Assured Income) scheme
2. “Krishak Bandhu” ( Death Benefit) scheme The scheme targets beneficiaries such as Individual, Family. It is specifically implemented in West Bengal. The implementing agency is Department Of Agriculture, Government Of West Bengal. Additionally, the nodal department is Agriculture Department.

The scheme provides the following benefits: “Krishak Bandhu” (Assured Income) scheme:
(a) An assured sum of ₹10,000/per acre per year will be given to the farmers who have 1 acre or more cultivable land.
(b) An assured sum of ₹4,000/per acre per year will be given to the farmers who have less than 1 acre of cultivable land.
(c) The financial support under the Scheme is payable in two equal installments, first during Kharif and second during the Rabi season each year.
“Krishak Bandhu” ( Death Benefit) scheme:
(a) In the event of the death of a farmer/recorded Bhagchasi (Sharecropper) in the age group of 18 60 years, the legal heirs of the deceased will be eligible for a onetime grant of ₹2,00,000/(Rupees Two Lakh) only.

Eligibility criteria include: The applicant should be a resident of West Bengal.
   All farmers having cultivable land with RoR, Patta, or Forest Patta and recorded (in RoR) Bhagchasi (Sharecropper), are eligible for getting assistance under this scheme.
   In the event of the death of any farmer or a recorded Bhagchasi (Share Cropper) in the age group of 18 – 60 years, the legal heir of the deceased will be eligible to get a onetime grant.

Note: The legal heir will be determined by the Block Development Officer (BDO) as per the set procedure. The application process is as follows: Application Process: Krishak Bandhu (Assured Income) Scheme
Step 01: The farmer is to fill up and submit the application form in the Gram Panchayat (GP) where he has maximum land holding.
Step 02: The farmer has to submit photocopies of the relevant documents at the time of application and also produce the original for verification. 
Step 03: The Farmer whose application is accepted at the camp will be verified online using the Krishak Bandhu (KB) App (depending on the availability of internet connectivity) and the applicant will be issued an Acknowledgement Slip on the spot.
Step 04: In case digitization of physical applications is not possible at the Duare Sarkar camp, the same will be digitized at the office of the Assistant Director of Agriculture (ADA) of the Block using the KB App and an Acknowledgement ID will be automatically generated for every applicant in the KB Portal.
Step 05: The ADA will verify the application details and land details.
Step 06: After checking, if the details are found to be correct, the ADA will approve the case and thereby the enrolment will get completed. If the details are incorrect, he will reject the application and file it. The applicant will get a systemgenerated SMS stating the reason for rejection.
Application Process: Krishak Bandhu (Death Benefit) Scheme
Step 01: Applicant can collect the application form from the Duare Sarkar camp. 
Step 02: Duly filledup application in the prescribed form addressed to the Assistant Director of Agriculture (ADA) of the Block should be submitted along with relevant documents.
Step 03: The ADA of the block will scrutinize the application to satisfy himself about its genuineness and completeness. If found in order, the ADA will forward the application with all documents to the Assistant Director of Agriculture (Admn.) of the Subdivision.
Step 04: The ADA (Admn.) will sanction the application after necessary checks and send the case to the Director of Agriculture &amp;amp; EoS through the Deputy Director of Agriculture (Admn.) of that district for payment of the grant.
Step 05: The DAWB &amp;amp; EoS will issue instructions to the West Bengal State Cooperative Bank Ltd. (WBSCBL) to disburse the grant.
Step 06: The WBSCBL will transfer the approved amount of the grant to the respective claimants in their respective bank accounts through DBT. Registration Process:
Step 01: Visit the official website:  https://bsk.wb.gov.in/register
Step 02: Click on “New User? Register Here” and enter your mobile number and then OTP.
Step 03: On the registration page, fill in the mandatory details (Name, Email, Mobile Number, Address and Password, etc.) and click on &amp;quot;Register&amp;quot;. The login credentials will be sent to your registered Email ID / Mobile Number.
Application Process:
Step 01: Visit the official website: https://bsk.wb.gov.in/citizenlogin
Step 02: Enter your mobile number &amp;amp; password and click on ‘Login’.
Step 03: Search the scheme by its name.
Step 04: On the application page, fill in all the mandatory fields and upload the required documents in the appropriate file size and file type. Upon successful submission of the application, you will get an Application Reference ID. For more information, please refer to: Guideline: https://wb.gov.in/duare_sarkar/Krishak_Bandhu.pdf Tags associated with the scheme include: Agriculture, Death, Farmer, Financial Assistance, Income.