The name of this welfare scheme is State Talent Search Examination in Mathematics and Science for Tribal Students of Meghalaya at the Close of Upper Primary Stage (Class VIII). It is also known as STSEMSTSMCUPSCVIII. The scheme “State Talent Search Examination in Mathematics and Science for Tribal Students of Meghalaya at the Close of Upper Primary Stage (Class VIII)” was launched by the Education Department, Government of Meghalaya. The Directorate of Educational Research &amp;amp; Training Meghalaya, Shillong is implementing this scheme for tribal students of Meghalaya studying in class VIII every year in all the Sub Divisional School Education Office (SDSEO) of the State.
      The scheme is meant only for tribal students of Meghalaya who belong to Khasi, Jaintia, Garo, Koch and  Hajong. Those who satisfy the criteria and are eligible to appear in the said Exam Selection of students for the scholarship will be given SDSEO-wise as per their merit in the said Examination. The number of awardees is 40 (forty) from SDSEO Shillong, East Khasi Hills, and 20 (twenty) awardees from the remaining 14 (fourteen) SDSEOs.
&gt; Objectives:

The main objectives of the scheme are to identify bright and talented students from amongst the tribal students of Meghalaya who are studying in class VIII through a competitive examination and to give them financial assistance in the form of a talent incentive award for developing and nurturing their talent. The scheme targets beneficiaries such as Individual. It is specifically implemented in Meghalaya. The implementing agency is Directorate Of Educational Research & Training Meghalaya, Shillong, Government Of Meghalaya. Additionally, the nodal department is Education Department.

The scheme provides the following benefits: The incentives award in the form of financial assistance of ₹600/per month per awardee for twelve months for two years from Class IXX will be provided.

Note: The amount of the scholarship will be directly transferred to the awardee’s bank account through NEFT/RTGS.

Eligibility criteria include: The applicant should be a tribal student of Meghalaya and belong to the Khasi, Jaintia, Garo, Koch and Hajong Communities.
   The student should be studying in Class VIII in any type of school in Meghalaya.
   The student should secure at least 50 marks in the aggregate in Mathematics and Science in Class VII.
   The student should be continuing their studies in any recognized secondary school in Meghalaya. The application process is as follows: Step 01: The students applying for the scholarship for the first time need to &amp;quot;Register&amp;quot; using the icon “New Registration” at the NSP Portal URL https://scholarships.gov.in/, by providing accurate and correct information as per their documents.
Step 02: After successfully get registration done, students will get their “Student Registration ID”.
Step 03: Through “Student Registration ID” students will be able to login into the account using the icon “Fresh Application” at NSP Portal.
Step 04: After successful login to the portal, the welcome page appeared. On clicking the “Application Form” icon, students will be directed to the application screen.
Step 05: Now, the students may fill out the complete application form and on clicking the “Final Submit” button, the application is finally submitted.
Step 06: On successful submission of the application, a systemgenerated registration number is sent to the students which can be used for future reference.
Note 01: The Directorate of Educational Research &amp;amp; Training (DERT) Shillong notified the date of the exam through an advertisement in the local newspaper.
Note 02: The DERT Shillong conducts the State Talent Search Examination for tribal students of Meghalaya studying in Class VIII in all the 15 SubDivisional School Education Offices of the state under the supervision of SubDivisional School Education Officers (SDSEOs).
Note 03: Selection of awardees for the scholarship is based on their merit in the State Talent Search Examination (STSE) districtwise. For more information, please refer to: Guidelines: https://scholarships.gov.in/public/schemeGuidelines/meghalaya/Guidelines_3046.pdf Official Web Portal: https://meghalaya.gov.in/schemes/content/37591 NSP Portal: https://scholarships.gov.in/ Tags associated with the scheme include: Garo, Hajong, Jaintia, Khasi, Koch, Mathematics, Scholarship, Science, Talent Search, Tribal Student, Upper Primary.