The name of this welfare scheme is Bharati Scheme for Education - Post-Graduation. It is also known as BSE-PG. Andhra Pradesh Brahmin Welfare Corporation (ABC) launched the &quot;Bharati Scheme for Education - Post-Graduation (Any course of 2 Years or more duration, after Graduation (10+2+3) will be considered under this category, i.e., M.Sc, M.Com, M.A., M.Tech, M.D., M.Pharm, MBA, etc.)&quot; for the academic year to encourage Brahmin students of Andhra Pradesh to continue their education.  Under this scheme, eligible poor Brahmin student applicants will receive financial assistance for the academic year. This scheme applies to the Brahmin students of Andhra Pradesh covering all 13 districts. The scheme targets beneficiaries such as Individual. It is specifically implemented in Andhra Pradesh. Additionally, the nodal department is Andhra Pradesh Brahmin Welfare Corporation.

The scheme provides the following benefits: Financial Assistance for the PostGraduation: ₹10,000/.

Eligibility criteria include: The student and his/her parents should belong to the Brahmin community.  
The parents should be studying in Andhra Pradesh.
The annual family income of parents/guardians should not exceed ₹3,00,000/.
The student should be studying in any recognized and reputed college for the academic year. 
The student should have cleared all the subjects of the previous year. 
The student should be enrolled in the Praja Sadhikara Survey (PSS). 
The student should not have availed himself/ herself of any amount under any other government scheme for the same purpose.  However, students availing benefit from Archaka Welfare Trust are eligible under this scheme. The application process is as follows: > Registration

Step01: Applicants have to visit the official website and click on Scheme.
Step02: Click on &quot;Registration&quot; under the concerned scheme name.
Step03: Fill out the application form with required details like:


  Personal Details: Name, Residence address, Aadhaar no, Ration card no, Bank detail etc
  Upload: Photo, Signature and Certificate Details 
  Documents: Birth Certificate, Residential Certificate, Aadhaar Card, Caste Certificate, Bank Passbook etc
  Finalize and &quot;Submit&quot; the application.


Step04: Receive the reference number after the submission.


> Check Application Status:

Step01: Click on the “Services” link on the menu and select &quot;Know your status&quot;.
Step02: Enter the Reference or Mobile or Aadhaar Card Number to get the application status.
Step03: Select the &quot;Financial Year&quot; and Fetch the details. 


> Download the Acknowledgement slip:

Step01: Applicants have to visit the official website and click on Scheme.
Step02: Click on the &quot;Acknowledgement Slip&quot; under the concerned scheme.
Step03: Enter the Aadhaar Card Number and select the &quot;Scheme&quot;.
Step04: Click on the &quot;Submit&quot;. For more information, please refer to: Guidelines: https://www.andhrabrahmin.ap.gov.in/down/bharathi2019.pdf Tags associated with the scheme include: Brahmin Community, Financial Assistance, Post-Graduation, Student.