The name of this welfare scheme is Scheme of Financial Assistance for Dance and Drama Troupes/Associations. It is also known as SFADDTA. The &quot;Scheme of Financial Assistance for Dance and Drama Troupes/Associations&quot; was launched by the Arts and Culture Department, Puducherry. The scheme aims to provide a grant of ₹2,000/- for dance and drama troupes/associations who have a standing of at least two years. The applications are accepted offline. The scheme targets beneficiaries such as Artists. It is specifically implemented in Puducherry. Additionally, the nodal department is Arts and Culture Department, Puducherry.

The scheme provides the following benefits: Grant of ₹2,000/given to the dance and drama troupes/associations.

Eligibility criteria include: The dance and drama troupes should be presenting new classical or folk dance programs or for staging new dramas, enacted by any cultural body registered in the territory.
The troupe/association or body should have a standing at least 2 years.
The theme of the dance or the story and dialogue of the drama must be new and original, created by an artist who is a native of the territory by birth or domicile. The application process is as follows: Step 1: The interested applicant should visit (during office hours) the Department of Art and Culture and request the hard copy of the prescribed format of the application form from the staff exclusively entrusted to issue and collect filledin applications.
OR
The interested applicant downloads the application form.
Step 2: In the application form, fill in all the mandatory fields, paste the passportsized photograph (signed across, if required), and attach copies of all the mandatory documents (selfattest, if required).
Step 3: Submit the duly filled and signed application form along with the documents to the superintendent, Department of Art and Culture,1, Romain Rolland Street, Puducherry.
Step 4: Request a receipt or acknowledgment from the superintendent to whom the application has been submitted. Ensure that the receipt contains essential details such as the date and time of submission, and a unique identification number (if applicable). For more information, please refer to: Citizens Charter: https://art.py.gov.in//sites/default/files/ecit1.pdf Official Website: https://art.py.gov.in/ Application Form: https://art.py.gov.in/sites/default/files/application-10.pdf Tags associated with the scheme include: Artists, Associations, Financial Assistance, Grant, Troupes.