The name of this welfare scheme is Dr. YSR Aarogyasri Health Insurance Scheme. It is also known as DYSRHIS. The &quot;Dr. YSR Aarogyasri Health Insurance Scheme&quot; was launched in 2007 by the Govt. of Andhra Pradesh to provide financial aid to low-income families in Andhra Pradesh. The scheme is a unique PPP model in the field of Health Insurance, tailor made to the health needs of poor patients and provides end-to-end cashless services for identified diseases under secondary and tertiary care through a network of service providers from Government and private sector.


The objective of the scheme are:

1. To provide free quality hospital care and equity of access to BPL families by purchase of quality medical services from identified network of health care providers through a self-funded reimbursement mechanism (serviced by Trust).
1. To provide financial security against the catastrophic health expenditures.
1. To strengthen the Government Hospitals through demand side financing.
1. To provide universal coverage of health for both urban and rural poor of the State of Andhra Pradesh. The scheme targets beneficiaries such as Individual. It is specifically implemented in Andhra Pradesh. Additionally, the nodal department is Department Health, Medical and Family Welfare.

It falls under the categories: Health & Wellness.

Eligibility criteria include: All Rice Card Holders are eligible.
Families which are eligible for YSR Pension Kanuka Card and Jagananna Vidya and Vasathi Deevena Card are also eligible.


For other families, the following criteria are applicable.


Landowners holding:

Less than 00 Acres of wet land
Less than 00 Acres of dry land
Total less than 00 Acres (Wet &amp; Dry)



Annual income of the Households:

All households whose annual income is less than or upto Rs.00 Lakhs (Salary certificate evidence)
Income Tax Payers: Families who are filing Income Tax Returns for annual income up to Rs.00 Lakhs are eligible (Income Tax Return evidence).



Employees:
Any employee, other than permanent Government employee/ pensioner, whose annual income is less than or upto Rs.00 Lakhs is eligible. It includes outsourcing, Contract, Part time employees, Sanitary workers, Honorarium based employees working in Government sector and employees of Private sector.


Municipal Property Tax Payers:
All households paying Municipal Property Tax for the area less than 3000 SFT (334 Sq. Yds)


Personal Vehicle:
Families/Households not having more than one personal car.


Source: https://www.ysraarogyasri.ap.gov.in/web/guest/amieligible For more information, please refer to: Guidelines: https://www.ysraarogyasri.ap.gov.in/asri Tags associated with the scheme include: Health, Insurance.