The name of this welfare scheme is The Tripura Tribal Folk Arts & Cultural (Financial Assistance) Rules, 2022. It is also known as TTFACFAR-2022. The &quot;Tripura Tribal Folk Arts &amp; Cultural (Financial Assistance) Scheme, 2022&quot; was launched by the Tribal Welfare Department, Government of Tripura. The scheme aims to to provide financial assistance to the government and non-government organizations to promote &amp; preserve the traditional culture programme, exhibition in different tribal communities, folk song, dance, occasion, organizing Mela, Festivals and observance of major tribal festivals etc. The scheme targets beneficiaries such as Government Organisation, NGO, Individual. It is specifically implemented in Tripura. Additionally, the nodal department is Department Of Tribal Welfare.

The scheme provides the following benefits: > GovernmentLevel Events:


Financial assistance for State, District, SubDivision, and blocklevel festivals/melas up to a maximum of 15% above the previous year&#39;s expenditure.



> NonGovernmental Organization (NGO) Events:


Financial assistance for State Level Festivals and Melas up to 10% of the previous year&#39;s expenditure.
New applications can receive a maximum of ₹30,000/for organizing festivals, melas, or related activities.

Eligibility criteria include: The persons and organizations belonging to Scheduled Tribes. 
Both governmental and nongovernmental organizations are eligible if they are involved in promoting and preserving tribal culture.
The governmental and nongovernmental organizations should cover any Festivals, Melas/ Musical Instrument/occasions any community programmes. The application process is as follows: Step 1: The interested applicant should visit (during office hours) the Director of Tribal Welfare or the relevant District/SubDivisional/Block authorities and request a hard copy of the prescribed format of the application form from the staff exclusively entrusted to issue and collect filledin applications.
Step 2: In the application form, fill in all the mandatory fields, and attach copies of all the mandatory documents (selfattest, if required).
Step 3: Submit the duly filled and signed application form along with the documents to the Director of Tribal Welfare or the relevant District/SubDivisional/Block authorities.
Step 4: Request a receipt or acknowledgment from the District Differently Abled Welfare Officer to whom the application has been submitted. Ensure that the receipt contains essential details such as the date and time of submission, and a unique identification number (if applicable). For more information, please refer to: Guidelines: https://twd.tripura.gov.in/sites/default/files/Guidelines_13.pdf Tags associated with the scheme include: Culture, Financial Assistance, Folk Arts, NGO.