The name of this welfare scheme is Skill Development Fee Reimbursement Scheme. It is also known as SDFRS. Through the “Skill Development Fee Reimbursement Scheme”, the SPC will reimburse 50% of the fees up to ₹ 50,000/- to the students who have successfully completed an SPC-approved technical skill training program in any of the approved domains from a Goan educational institute. The scheme targets beneficiaries such as Business Entity, University / Institution. It is specifically implemented in Goa. The implementing agency is Startup Promotion Cell (SPC). Additionally, the nodal department is Information and Publicity Department.

The scheme provides the following benefits: Reimbursement of 50% of the fees up to ₹ 50,000/to the students who have successfully completed an SPCapproved technical skill training program in any of the &quot;approved domains&quot;, attended in a Goan educational institute:Up to 1000 students per year can avail the benefits of this scheme. However, this cap can be reviewed and revised based on the need in future.
A student can avail the benefits of this scheme for any two courses in a year.

NOTE: Under no circumstance shall the benefits under this scheme be considered an entitlement. The SPC shall reserve the sole right to accept or reject applications.

Eligibility criteria include: The applicant should be an educational institution.
The educational institute must be incorporated in Goa or have a registered place of business in Goa.
The technical skill training program must be approved by SPC and should fall under any of the technical domains:
Internet of things, Artificial intelligence, Machine Learning, Interaction Design, Big Data Analytics, Robotics, 3D Printing, Data Science, Drones, Virtual Reality/Augmented Reality/Merged Reality, Others (subject to approval from SPC).
The students who are currently pursuing their graduation or are within two years from receiving their graduate degree within the original stipulated period of study can enrol for these programs. 
NOTE: Only expenditures incurred after notification of Goa Startup Policy 2017, being within the validity of this policy and paid for digitally will be considered for reimbursements under this scheme. In case digital payments are not possible, then it shall be up to the decision of SPC as per its due diligence to admit the expenditure.


> Definitions


For the purpose of this scheme “Goan Educational Institute” means an institute registered or operating in Goa.For the purpose of this scheme the term “Student” refers to a person satisfying at least one of the following criteria:
             a)    Person born in the State of Goa and studying in Goa or outside Goa; or,
             b)    Person having domicile for 10 years or more in the State and studying in Goa or outside Goa; or,
             c)    Person who is not a State domicile but is studying in the educational institutes in the State. The application process is as follows: Step 1: Visit the Official Website of Goa Startup Mission.
Step 2: Verify your Email ID and Mobile Number using OTP. You will be redirected to the Registration Page.
Step 3: On the Registration/Signup Page, fill in all the mandatory fields of the registration form (Country, Name, Date of Birth, Address, PIN Code, Gender, etc.).
Step 4: Create a Login Name and a strong Password (Password can have special characters like @ # $ % ^ &amp; + =).
Step 5: Carefully read the Declaration and the Terms &amp; Conditions, and tick the checkboxes.
Step 6: Fill in the Captcha Code, and click &quot;Register/Signup&quot;.
Step 7: Login to the website using your Login Name and Password. Fill in the Captcha Code, and click &quot;Login&quot;.
Step 8: Navigate to the online application form for the relevant scheme.
Step 9: In the application form, fill in all the mandatory fields and upload all the mandatory documents (selfattest if required).
Step 10: Submit the application and note the application reference number for application tracking.


OR 


Step 1: Take a print of the proforma of the application form. Fill in all the mandatory fields, and attach copies of all the mandatory documents (selfattest if required).
Step 2: Submit the duly filled and signed application form along with the documents to SPC via Email at spcdit.goa@gov.in


NOTE: The applicant can apply for this scheme at any time of the financial year but only within 6 months of incurring the relevant expenditure.


> Notification

The applications received by the SPC shall be evaluated and approval or rejection shall be notified within 45 days from receipt of the application by the SPC. For more information, please refer to: Startup Goa Schemes: https://www.goa.gov.in/wp-content/uploads/2018/05/Schemes.pdf Startup Goa Website: https://www.startup.goa.gov.in/StartupIncentives Guidelines: https://www.startup.goa.gov.in/Incentives/SkillDevelopmentFeeReimbursementScheme.pdf Contact Us: https://www.startup.goa.gov.in/ContactUs Tags associated with the scheme include: Business, Education, Entrepreneurship, Reimbursement, Skill, Training.