The name of this welfare scheme is Coir Vikas Yojana- Export Market Promotion Scheme. It is also known as CVY-EMPS. Coir Board is implementing the Central Sector Scheme “Export Market Promotion Scheme” with a view to improving the export performance of the Indian Coir Sector through various export market promotion activities such as sponsoring delegations, participation in seminars and conferences, organizing participation in international fairs, undertaking generic publicity abroad, extending financial assistance to Micro, Small and Medium Enterprises and Exporters, presenting Coir Industry Awards on an annual basis to recognize the outstanding performance in the areas of export, domestic trade, R&amp;amp;D, functioning of units &amp;amp; societies etc. The programmes are implemented in accordance with the approved Export Market Promotion Guidelines. The scheme targets beneficiaries such as Business Entity, Industries. The implementing agency is Coir Board, Ministry Of Micro, Small & Medium Enterprises, Government Of India. Additionally, the nodal ministry is Ministry Of Micro, Small and Medium Enterprises.

The scheme provides the following benefits: Delegation, Consultancy &amp;amp; Information Sourcing
   Participation in International seminars and conferences and organizing capacitybuilding programmes in exportrelated areas 
   Participation in international fairs/product promotion programmes, catalogue shows and organizing exclusive international fairs and buyerseller meets for coir
   Publicity abroad
   External Market Development Assistance
   Coir Industry Awards
   Financial assistance includes assistance for participation in International Exhibitions/Trade Fairs/Buyer seller Meets held in foreign countries:


  100% of the space rent subject to a maximum of ₹00 lakh or actual rent paid in the case of foreign countries, whichever is lower per exporter/enterprise.
  100% of the economy class airfare subject to a maximum of ₹50 lakh/ and ₹1 Lakh in India or actual fare paid, whichever is lower to one representative of the exporter.
  Freight chargesActual subject to a maximum of ₹25,000/in foreign countries and ₹20,000/in Indiaper exporter/enterprise.

Eligibility criteria include: Manufacturers, Entrepreneurs, and Exporters of Coir are eligible to apply under the scheme.
   Exporters and micro, small &amp;amp; medium enterprises of coir and coir products should be registered with the Coir Board, and would be eligible for assistance under the scheme, provided they have not availed the facility from any other source for the same purpose.
   The Enterprise/exporter shall not have been charged/debarred/ prosecuted/ blacklisted under the Foreign Trade Policy of the Government of India or by the Coir Board.

Note: If any other financial assistance has been received from the Coir Board for the same purpose, the assistance already received will be deducted from the eligible amount of assistance and the balance alone shall be paid. The application process is as follows: Export Market Promotion Scheme has Two Parts:
Exporter &amp;amp; RCMC Registration
Export Market Development Assistance (EMDA) 
The applicant may fill up the Online Application through the Board online.
Exporter &amp;amp; RCMC Registration:
&gt; Stage 1 New Login Registration:

Step 01: Click on the link &amp;quot;New Login Registration&amp;quot; in the Login.
Step 02: Enter Name, PAN Number, email, and Mobile Phone Number as per the format given on the screen
Step 03: PAN number, email, and Mobile Phone Number once entered cannot be changed later in the application form.
Step 04: Now, the applicant should select a secret question from the dropdown menu and then type the answer in the next Column.
Step 05: Applicant should now choose your User Name (Please refer to the User Name Policy provided).
Step 06: Enter the Given Security PIN displayed on the screen.
Step 07: Applicant can now finalize the above details by clicking the CONFIRM Button. Please note that the email ID, as well as the Mobile Number provided, should be that of your own as all correspondences in the future will be through email and SMS.
Step 08: Applicant will receive your username and password by email as well as by SMS.
&gt; Stage2 Login to the Portal:

Step 01: In the login section of the login page, type your username and password received through email/SMS and click &amp;quot;Sign In&amp;quot;
Step 02: Immediately applicant will be asked to change your password. Here applicant should set a new password as per the password policy of the site and confirm. Applicants will be automatically asked to relogin with new credentials.
Step 03: After successful login, Applicant will be redirected to your Home Page.
&gt; Stage 3 Submit Online Application

Step 01: From The Left side Menu, Expand the Menu item +Registration
Step 02: Further Expand the Menu item + Exporter and Select the Link Registration
Step 03: Give All the Details and Submit the Form
Step 04: For RCMC Registration Repeat the same steps by selecting the + RCMC Menu Item and Registration Link
Step 05: Give all the details and submit the Application for RCMC.
Step 06: Take the Print Out of Exporter Registration and RCMC Registration submitted application form from the Portal, and send it to Coir Board along with the Demand draft.
&gt; Application status:


  Applicants can check and verify the status of the application on the website by login to your Home Page with their Username and Password.
  Beneficiary/Applicant should visit respective home pages of www.coirservices.gov.in for the latest developments against your application.
Export Market Development Assistance (EMDA): 
&gt; Stage 1 New Login Registration


  The applicant may follow the same steps as for Exporter &amp;amp; RCMC Registration.

&gt; Stage2 Login to the Portal


  The applicant may follow the same steps as for Exporter &amp;amp; RCMC Registration.

&gt; Stage3 Submit Beneficiary Registration (Part A)

Step 01: An Application for EMDA contains two Parts. Part A consists of common details related to the beneficiary and is called the Beneficiary Registration form. PARTA is common to All Coir Beneficiary schemes.
Step 02: Expand the link +Beneficiary Registration by clicking on the + symbol, the applicant will get the link Registration PartA
Step 03: After completing Beneficiary registration (PartA), the beneficiary will get a beneficiary registration Number.
&gt; Stage3: Submit EMDA Application

Step 01: Expand the Link +Export Market Development Assistance by clicking the mouse on the + symbol,
Step 02: Applicant will get the Link Online application
Step 03: Fill up the Details and submit the Form.
Step 04: Applicant can check Application status at any time by Login to your Home Page and Select the Application Status Link under the + Export Market Development Assistance Menu Item
&gt; Stage 4: Submit Claim

Step 01: If the Application is approved by the Coir Board, the applicant can submit the Claim details as soon as the applicant comes back from the Exhibition.
Step 02: Under the EMDA Menu Select the Submit Claim link and fill in the details and submit the claim. For more information, please refer to: Official Website: http://coirboard.gov.in/?page_id=221 Guidelines: http://coirboard.gov.in/wp-content/uploads/2018/03/emp.pdf Application Portal: https://www.coirservices.gov.in/frm_login.aspx Tags associated with the scheme include: Coir, Coir Board, Entrepreneur, Export, Exporter, MSME, Promotion.