The name of this welfare scheme is National Scheme Of Welfare Of Fishermen. It is also known as NSWF. The National Scheme of Welfare of Fishermen is a centrally sponsored scheme that provides financial assistance to fishermen. They can use these for constructing houses and community halls for both recreation and work purposes. Further, through the amount availed under this scheme, fishermen can install tube wells.


Objectives-



1. Provide fishermen with basic amenities such as housing, community halls, tube well for drinking water.
1. Ensure Financial And Social Securities Of Fishermen And Their Families.
1. Upgrade The Standard Of Living Of Fishermen.
1. Educate And Train Fishermen In Advanced Technical Technologies So That They Can Learn Scientific Ways Of Fishing. The scheme targets beneficiaries such as Individual. Additionally, the nodal ministry is Ministry of Fisheries,Animal Husbandry and Dairying.

It falls under the categories: Agriculture,Rural & Environment.

Eligibility criteria include: Eligibility Criteria for Inland Fishermen



Fishermen living in coastal areas and with whom the respective States and Union Territories have officially licensed are eligible for this scheme.
The age of fishermen must be below 60 years old.
Applicant fishermen must belong to the BPL (Below Poverty Line) category.
They must be engaged in fulltime activities inland.



Eligibility Criteria for Marine Fishermen


All marine fishermen who operate under State, Union Territories, and FISHCOPFED are eligible for this government scheme for fishermen. However, there are other eligibility parameters marine fishermen must fulfill. These include Their respective States and Union Territories must officially license marine fishermen.
They must involve themselves in fulltime activities at sea.
They must be a member of the Welfare Society or Federation or Cooperative Society.
Please note that the fishermen under FISHCOPFED can avail of funds available under the insurance component only. For more information, please refer to: Guidelines: https://dahd.nic.in/related-links/centrally-sponsored-national-scheme-welfare-fishermen#:~:text=The%20Centrally%20Sponsored%20'National%20Scheme,period%20through%20saving%20cum%20relief Tags associated with the scheme include: Financial Assistance, Fisheries, Social Welfare.