The name of this welfare scheme is "Outstanding Entrepreneur" under “Motivation of Entrepreneurs to Start Industries and Fiscal Assistance to Industries - State Awards to Micro, Small and Medium Enterprises”. It is also known as OE-MESIFAI-SA-MSME. &quot;Outstanding Entrepreneur&quot; under “Motivation of Entrepreneurs to Start Industries and Fiscal Assistance to Industries - State Awards to Micro, Small and Medium Enterprises” is a scheme by the Industries and Commerce Department, Union Territory of Puducherry. The scheme is formulated under the New Industrial Policy 2016, introduced on 4th October 2016. The &#39;State Award&#39; Schemes are formulated to provide awards for the best outstanding Entrepreneurs/Enterprises conforming to the New Industrial Policy 2016. The scheme is in operation in the whole of the UT of Puducherry. The applications are accepted offline in the prescribed form available on the Official Website of the Department. The scheme targets beneficiaries such as Individual. It is specifically implemented in Puducherry. Additionally, the nodal department is Industries and Commerce Department, Puducherry.

The scheme provides the following benefits: Cash Award of ₹2,00,000/and a Citation.

Eligibility criteria include: The unit shall be functioning profitably for 3 years before the date of application.
The unit should provide atleast 60% of employment to the people of UT of Puducherry of the total employment strength of the industrial units. The application process is as follows: The Director of Industries will invite the application for award by wide publicity.
Step 1: The industrial unit should apply for the award in the prescribed form available on the Official Website of the Directorate of Industries and Commerce, Puducherry.
Step 2: In the application form, fill in all the mandatory fields, and attach copies of all the mandatory documents (selfattest, if required).
Step 3: The unit should submit the duly filled and signed application form and the documents to the concerned authority either in person or by post.
> PostApplication Process

Step 1: The applications shall be scrutinised by the Directorate of Industries and Commerce on a merit basis for the grant of state awards will be placed before the award Committee.
Step 2: The Committee for the awards will go into the merits of each case for granting the award.
Step 3: The list of selected enterprises shall be notified and informed by the Director of Industries to the enterprises to receive the awards. For more information, please refer to: Guidelines: https://industry.py.gov.in/sites/default/files/state-award-go.pdf Tags associated with the scheme include: Award, Business, Entrepreneur, Industry, MSME.