The name of this welfare scheme is Sales Rebate under 'Marketing And Publicity'. It is also known as SRMP. The scheme &quot;Sales Rebate under Marketing And Publicity&quot; was launched by the Department of Industries and Commerce, Union Territory of Puducherry. The scheme aims to provide a sales rebate of 15% to the existing and newly established Sales Emporia / Showrooms recognized by the Union Territory of Puducherry for the sale of Handicrafts, Micro and small enterprises products manufactured by the units in Puducherry. The objective of this is to promote the sale of the products of Micro/Small/Medium Enterprises (MSME) and the Cottage Sector. The scheme targets beneficiaries such as Business Entity. It is specifically implemented in Puducherry. Additionally, the nodal department is District Industries Centre Organization.

The scheme provides the following benefits: 15% as a rebate on the sales, subject to a maximum of ₹15,00,000/per annum.

Eligibility criteria include: The applicant should be a Sales Emporia/Showroom.
The applicant should have its units in Puducherry.
The applicant should be recognized by the UT of Puducherry for the sale of handicrafts, and products of micro and small enterprises. The application process is as follows: Step 1: The interested applicant should take print of the prescribed format of the application form.
Step 2: In the application form, fill in all the mandatory fields, paste the passportsized photograph (signed across, if required), and attach copies of all the mandatory documents (selfattest, if required).
Step 3: The interested applicant should visit (on a working day, and during office hours) the District Industries Centre (Thattanchavady, Puducherry 605 009), and submit the duly filled and signed application form and the documents to the concerned authority.
Step 4: On receipt of the application, necessary entries will be made in the application receipt register and a unique number is assigned to the applicant for identifying each applicant which shall be used for all further references and also as acknowledgement for the receipt of the application. For more information, please refer to: Citizen's Charter: https://dic.py.gov.in/sites/default/files/citizencharter.pdf Application Form: https://dic.py.gov.in/application-forms-download-area Contact Us: https://dic.py.gov.in/contact-us Grievance Redressal: https://industry.py.gov.in/grievance-redressal-mechanism Tags associated with the scheme include: Business, Handicrafts, Industry, MSME, Rebate, Sales.