The name of this welfare scheme is Silicosis Pidit Hita-dhikariyon Hetu Sahayata Yojana. It is also known as SPHHSY. &quot;Silicosis Pidit Hita-dhikariyon Hetu Sahayata Yojana&quot; has been started for the laborers working in stone mines in Rajasthan. An assistance scheme has been started for the beneficiaries suffering from silicosis. In which financial assistance will be provided to laborers and workers in case of silicosis or death. Applicants can apply for the assistance scheme to silicosis victims through both online and offline modes. The scheme targets beneficiaries such as Individual. It is specifically implemented in Rajasthan. Additionally, the nodal department is Labour Department.

The scheme provides the following benefits: In case of suffering from silicosis : ₹1,00,000/In case of death of a victim of silicosis : ₹3,00,000/

Eligibility criteria include: Those construction workers who are registered with the Board as beneficiaries and are depositing contributions
The beneficiary is suffering from silicosis as certified by the Pneumoconiosis Medical Board constituted under the Rajasthan Workmen&#39;s Compensation (Occupational Diseases) Rules, The beneficiary cannot receive silicosis assistance amount from the Rajasthan Environment and Health Care Fund (Rehab).



Note A person suffering from silicosis will be eligible to get assistance only under any one of the schemes of Rajasthan Environment and Health Cess Fund or the Board. The application process is as follows: > Registration

Step1: Applicant have to visit the official portal. 
Step2: Click on the option “Register”.
Step3: Then you will be redirected to the SSO registration page. The registration page will appear with the following options.


  Citizen


Step4: Choose the either one option from  the Jan Aadhaar Or Google to process further.


  Jan Aadhaar : Enter the Jan Aadhaar number, click on the ‘Next’ button,


      Select your name, the name of the head of the family and all the other members and 
      Click on the ‘Send OTP’ button. Enter the ‘OTP’ and 
      Click on the ‘Verify OTP’ button to Complete the registration. 






  Google : Enter the Gmail ID, click on the ‘Next’ button, 


      Enter the password.
      A new link appear on screen, now click on new SSO link.
      SSO id will appear on screen, now create the password.
      Enter Mobile number, click on registration.




 
> Apply 

Step1: Applicant have to visit the official portal. 
Step2: After login, dashboard will open.
Step3: Click on “LDMS” option.
Step4: In LDMS, select &quot;Welfare Schemes&quot; from the side menu and select BOCW Welfare Board. 
Step5: Now click on &quot;Apply for Scheme&quot; on screen. 
Step6: In this new page, will get a list of names of all the schemes of Rajasthan Shramik Card, out of which click on the name of &quot; Yojana&quot;
Step7: Fill out the all relevant detail. 
Step8: Submit.


>  Periodd for submission of application: Application for financial assistance can be made for a period of 6 months from the date of issuance ofther  certificate by the Pneumoconiosis Medical Board and in case of death, for 6 months from the date of death. In special circumstances, the time limit can be relaxed by the Divisional Secretary after a satisfactory and appropriate reason for the delay is explained. For more information, please refer to: Guidelines: https://labour.rajasthan.gov.in/Schemes.aspx Details: https://schemes.rajasthan.gov.in/scheme/detail/226 Registration: https://sso.rajasthan.gov.in/register Login: https://sso.rajasthan.gov.in/signin Tags associated with the scheme include: Financial Assistance, Health, Labour, Silicosis Victim.