The name of this welfare scheme is National Science Chair- Scientific Excellence. It is also known as NSC-SE. There are a few chairs/professorships available in the country instituted by various ministries/departments/ academies with public funds. Considering the limited number of such opportunities, the Science and Engineering Research Board (SERB) has been catering to one such scheme - National Science Chair: Scientific Excellence &amp;amp; Science Leadership. The main aim of the scheme is to recognize active eminent senior resident Indian superannuated scientists for their outstanding contributions both nationally and internationally, in the areas of Science, Technology, Engineering, Mathematics (STEM), and Medicine, to promote excellence and growth in R&amp;amp;D.
Mode-1: Scientific Excellence:
The performing senior scientists who have made outstanding contributions to research, as evidenced by S&amp;amp;T output indicators (i.e. publications, patents, technology transfer, software development or an impact on policy) and wish to continue their work in R&amp;amp;D will be recognized through this mode. SERB recognizes the need for utilizing the expertise of exceptionally meritorious senior scientists. Non-utilization of their expertise, in one sense, is a national loss and age should not be the criterion for performing scientists.
&gt; Objective:

To extend continuance of support for excellence in R&amp;amp;D activities of eminent senior superannuated scientists who are passionate in research as evidenced by the S&amp;amp;T output.
&gt; Advisory Committee:

A committee referred to as the National Science Chair Advisory Committee (NSCAC) has been constituted to oversee the development of the Chairs, make recommendations for the selection of the awardees, review their progress /extension, undertake assigned activities to ensure promotion, relevance, and quality of R&amp;amp;D, as well as to meet the goal of the awards.
&gt; Number of Positions:


  - The maximum number of positions is restricted to thirty (30).

&gt; Tenure and Commencement:


  - The award will be given initially for a period of 3 years and is extendable for a maximum of another two years, subject to the recommendations of the NSCAC.
  - Selected Chairs will have to join within a period of six months from the date of issue of the offer letter. The scheme targets beneficiaries such as Individual. The implementing agency is Science And Engineering Research Board, Government Of India. Additionally, the nodal ministry is Ministry Of Science And Technology and the nodal department is Department Of Science & Technology.

The scheme provides the following benefits: An amount of ₹5 lakhs per month will be given to the awardee as a fellowship.
   The Research Grant in this case will be ₹25 lakhs per annum.
   For overhead expenses, ₹0 lakh per annum will be given to the host institution.

Note: The grant shall be used for manpower, equipment, travel (including international), contingency, etc. It needs to be utilized as per the norms of the Host Institute. Items purchased out of the contingency grant will be the property of the Host Institute after the completion of tenure. However, in certain listed items, their retention by the awardee will be decided in accordance with the existing government rules and regulations on the subject.

Eligibility criteria include: &gt; Eligibility for nomination:


   The nominee should be an active resident Indian scientist/academician, with an outstanding research track record in any one or more areas of STEM and medicine, particularly during the last five years.
   The nominee must have received recognition for his/her work from national/international scientific bodies such as fellowship in prestigious academies and S&amp;amp;T awards.
   The nominee could be affiliated with an academic institutions/R&amp;amp;D lab or should have consent on the subject from the future host institution.

Note: The nominee should not hold any administrative roles and functions and is not in receipt of any honorarium/fellowship/salary from any other institute or organization at the time of initiation of the NSC award if offered by SERB. 
&gt; Assessment Criteria: The assessment criteria for the selection of the awardee will be decided by NSCAC and it will be generally based on the following considerations:


   Outstanding research track record of the nominee and international standing in the field.
   Quality/originality of proposed research plan.
   Ability to mentor young researchers and implement proactive approaches towards the advancement of S&amp;amp;T talent in the country. The application process is as follows: &gt; Nomination Procedure:


  Call for nomination will not be periodic in nature and will be made from time to time subject to vacancies available every year.
  Proposal in the prescribed form will be invited from the current and former Presidents of any of the national science academies (including Engineering, Agriculture, Medicine, etc.), Directors of premier institutes like IISc, Bangalore, IISERs, IITs, NITs, National Laboratories, etc., ViceChancellors of Universities as well as members of Scientific Advisory Councils to the Hon’ble PM &amp;amp; Cabinet and members of governing bodies of Science and Engineering Research Board and Secretaries to Govt. of India in Ministries / Departments.
  The proposed nomination duly completed in all respects (including the copy of the research proposal in 56 pages providing a broad outline/framework of the intended work), signed, and routed through the Head of the Institution wherein a scientist/technologist intends to work or get associated with, should be submitted online at www.serbonline.in as and when the calls are announced.
&gt; Application Procedure:

Step 01: The nominee needs to register in the SERB online portal. Click here to register
Step 02: After login, the Nominee needs to fill in all the mandatory fields in the Nominee Details section under User Profile which includes Photo, Institution, Address, etc.
Step 03: Under Form Submission, choose Scheme: National Science Chair, and fill out the National Science Chair nomination form which includes details of the Nominee Details, Qualification Details, Employment Details, Professional Recognition/Fellowship, Scientific Research Index, Publication Details, Patent Details, Upload Documents, Nominator Details and Other Information, etc.
Step 04: Proposed area of research and a brief outline of the proposal of Nominee to be uploaded in a single PDF file not more than 5 pages.
Step 05: After filling in the details, the Nominee should click on &amp;quot;Send to Nominator&amp;quot;.
Step 06: Nominators will receive intimation via email with a link to the SERB online portal, to view the filledin National Science Chair Nomination form.
Step 07: The Nominator can choose to submit the nomination to SERB or resend the form to the Nominee for any revision.
Step 08: Once submitted, Nominee and Nominator will receive an intimation regarding the successful submission.
&gt; Selection Procedure:


  The proposals will be examined by the NSCAC to ascertain their merit.
  The recommendations of the Committee will be considered by the SERB to make funding decisions. For more information, please refer to: Official Website: https://serb.gov.in/page/awards_fellowship#National%20Science%20Chair Scheme Guideline: https://www.serbonline.in/SERB/nationalScienceChair?HomePage=New Tags associated with the scheme include: Chair, Fellowship, Research, Science, Scientific Excellence, Scientist, SERB, Superannuated.