The name of this welfare scheme is  "Immediate Relief Assistance" under "Welfare and Relief for Fishermen During Lean Seasons and Natural Calamities Scheme". It is also known as IRA-WRFLSNCS. The scheme &quot;Immediate Relief Assistance&quot; is a Sub-Component under the scheme &quot;Welfare and Relief for Fishermen During Lean Seasons and Natural Calamities Scheme&quot;. The scheme is extended to all the regions of the Union territory of Puducherry. The scheme is introduced with the objective of extending financial assistance to the fishermen&#39;s families to compensate for the loss due to the missing breadwinner and to support them financially to run their family. The scheme targets beneficiaries such as Individual, Family. It is specifically implemented in Puducherry. Additionally, the nodal department is Fisheries and Fishermen Welfare Department, Puducherry.

The scheme provides the following benefits: ₹ 1,00,000, in two installments of ₹ 50,000 each, as immediate relief assistance for the family (legal heir) of the missing fisherman.


> Disbursal


Initially, 50% will be extended within 3 months from the date of receipt of the application from the family (legal heir).
The family (legal heir) should approach this department for the release of the balance 50% of the relief which will be deposited in the bank in a joint account in the name of kin (legal heir) and the competent authority concerned.
If no further information is received about the missing person, the balance amount will be released in favour of the next of kin (legal heir), after the prescribed period of 9 months from the date of release of 1st part of lump sum.

In case of the return of the missing fishermen, the amount extended as compensation either ₹ 50,000 or ₹ 1,00,000 as the case may be, will be recovered by invoking an insurance bond.

Eligibility criteria include: The applicant should be the family (legal heir) of the missing fisherman.
The missing fisherman should have been a resident of the Union territory of Puducherry.
The missing fisherman must have lost his/her life while fishing. 
The missing fisherman must have been in the age group of 1860 years.
The missing fisherman must not have been a beneficiary of the old age pension scheme. 
The missing fisherman should have enrolled as a member of the Fishermen/Fisherwomen Cooperative Society. The application process is as follows: Step 1: The interested applicant should visit the office of the concerned authority i.e. the Department of Fisheries and Fishermen Welfare/SubOffices of outlying regions in all four regions.
Step 1: The interested applicant should request the hard copy of the prescribed format of the application form from the concerned authority.
Step 2: In the application form, fill in all the mandatory fields, paste the passportsized photograph (signed across, if required), and attach copies of all the mandatory documents (selfattest, if required).
Step 3: Submit the duly filled and signed application form along with the documents to the concerned authority.
Step 4: Request a receipt or acknowledgment from the concerned authority to whom the application has been submitted. Ensure that the receipt contains essential details such as the date and time of submission, and a unique identification number (if applicable).
The affected family (legal heir) should apply immediately within 30 days from the date of the event for consideration. For more information, please refer to: Guidelines & Application Form: https://fisheries.py.gov.in/sites/default/files/immediate20relief20notification.pdf State Plan Schemes: https://fisheries.py.gov.in/sites/default/files/fisheries-state-plan-schemes.pdf List Of Sub-Offices: https://fisheries.py.gov.in/sub-offices Contact Us: https://fisheries.py.gov.in/contact-us Tags associated with the scheme include: Family, Financial Assistance, Fisherman, Missing, Relief.