The name of this welfare scheme is Deendayal Antyodaya Yojana - National Rural Livelihoods Mission. It is also known as DAY-NRLM. Deendayal Antyodaya Yojana - National Rural Livelihoods Mission (DAY-NRLM) is the flagship program of the Ministry of Rural Development (MoRD) for promoting poverty reduction through building strong institutions for the poor, particularly women, and enabling these institutions to access a range of financial services and livelihoods. DAY-NRLM adopts a demand-driven approach, enabling the States to formulate their own State-specific poverty reduction action plans. The blocks and districts in which all the components of DAY-NRLM would be implemented, either through the SRLMs or partner institutions or NGOs, would be the intensive blocks and districts, whereas the remaining would be non-intensive blocks and districts. National Rural Livelihood Mission (NRLM) is a restructured version of restructuring Swarnajayanti Gram Swarojgar Yojana (SGSY). NRLM was renamed as DAY-NRLM (Deendayal Antyodaya Yojana - National Rural Livelihoods Mission) w.e.f. March 29, 2016. 


NRLM has set out with an agenda to cover 7 Crore rural poor households, across 600 districts, 6000 blocks, 2.5 lakh Gram Panchayats and 6 lakh villages in the country through self-managed Self Help Groups (SHGs) and federated institutions and support them for livelihoods collectives in a period of 8-10 years. In addition, the poor would be facilitated to achieve increased access to their rights, entitlements, and public services, diversified risk, and better social indicators of empowerment. NRLM believes in harnessing the innate capabilities of the poor and complements them with capacities (information, knowledge, skills, tools, finance, and collectivization) to participate in the growing economy of the country.


> The Mission

&quot;To reduce poverty by enabling the poor households to access gainful self-employment and skilled wage employment opportunities, resulting in appreciable improvement in their livelihoods on a sustainable basis, through building strong grassroots institutions of the poor.&quot;


> The Core Values

Inclusion of the poorest, and meaningful role to the poorest in all the processes
Transparency and accountability of all processes and institutions
Ownership and the key role of the poor and their institutions in all stages – planning, implementation, and, monitoring
Community self-reliance and self-dependence


NRLM implementation is in a Mission Mode. This enables - 
(a) the shift from the present allocation-based strategy to a demand-driven strategy enabling the states to formulate their own livelihoods-based poverty reduction action plans, 
(b) focus on targets, outcomes, and time-bound delivery, 
(c) continuous capacity building, imparting requisite skills and creating linkages with livelihoods opportunities for the poor, including those emerging in the organized sector, and 
(d) monitoring against targets of poverty outcomes. 


As NRLM follows a demand-driven strategy, the States have the flexibility to develop their livelihoods-based perspective plans and annual action plans for poverty reduction. The overall plans would be within the allocation for the state based on inter-se poverty ratios. The scheme targets beneficiaries such as Self Help Groups (SHGS), Individual. Additionally, the nodal ministry is Ministry Of Rural Development and the nodal department is Department of Rural Development.

It falls under the categories: Social welfare & Empowerment, Skills & Employment.

Eligibility criteria include: SHGs should be in active existence at least for the last 6 months as per the books of account of SHGs and not from the date of opening of the S/B account.
SHGs should be practicing ‘Panchasutras’ i.e., Regular meetings; Regular savings; Regular interloaning; Timely repayment; and Uptodate books of accounts.
Qualified as per grading norms fixed by NABARD. As and when the federations of the SHGs come to existence, the grading exercise may be done by the Federations to support the banks.
The existing defunct SHGs are also eligible for the credit if they are revived and continue to be active for a minimum period of 3 months For more information, please refer to: Guidelines: https://darpg.gov.in/sites/default/files/National%20Rural%20Livilihood%20Mission.pdf FAQs: https://aajeevika.gov.in/en/content/faq Official Website: https://aajeevika.gov.in/ Registration Page: https://aajeevika.gov.in/en/member/register Tags associated with the scheme include: Employment, Loan, SHG, Skill.