The name of this welfare scheme is Chhatraon Ke Liye Protsahan Rashi. It is also known as CKLPR. The &quot;Chhaatron Ke Liye Protsahan Rashi&quot; scheme Under the Agriculture Department of the Rajasthan government provides financial assistance to economically disadvantaged students who may face challenges in accessing education due to financial constraints. Studying agriculture aims to equip individuals with the knowledge and skills necessary to enhance agricultural productivity sustainably.
This includes learning about innovative farming techniques, crop management practices, breeding strategies, and technological advancements that can increase yields and efficiency in agricultural production. Students learn about food safety standards, quality control measures, food processing techniques, and foodborne pathogens to ensure the safety and integrity of the food supply. The scheme targets beneficiaries such as Individual. It is specifically implemented in Rajasthan. Additionally, the nodal department is Agriculture Department.

The scheme provides the following benefits: Senior Secondary Level:

  Girls studying agriculture in 11th and 12th standard will receive a scholarship of ₹15,000 per year.

Undergraduate Level:

  Girls enrolled in undergraduate agricultural programs (4/5 years) like Horticulture, Dairy, Agricultural Engineering, Food Processing, and Shri Karna Narendra Business School, Jobner will receive a scholarship of ₹25,000 per year.

Postgraduate Level:

  Girls pursuing M.Sc. Agriculture (2 years) will receive a scholarship of ₹25,000 per year.

PhD Level:

  Girls pursuing PhD in Agriculture (maximum 3 years) will receive a scholarship of ₹40,000 per year.

Eligibility criteria include: The applicant should be a Girl.
The applicant should be a native of Rajasthan 
The applicant should be studying in schools, colleges, and universities recognized by the government and state government. The application process is as follows: > Registration

Step1: Applicant have to visit the official portal. 
Step2: Click on the option “Register”.
Step3: Then you will be redirected to the SSO registration page. The registration page will appear with the following options.


  Citizen


Step4: Choose the either one option from  the Jan Aadhaar Or Google to process further.


  Jan Aadhaar : Enter the Jan Aadhaar number, click on the ‘Next’ button,


      Select your name, the name of the head of the family and all the other members and 
      Click on the ‘Send OTP’ button. Enter the ‘OTP’ and 
      Click on the ‘Verify OTP’ button to Complete the registration. 






  Google : Enter the Gmail ID, click on the ‘Next’ button, 


      Enter the password.
      A new link appear on screen, now click on new SSO link.
      SSO id will appear on screen, now create the password.
      Enter Mobile number, click on registration.




Step5: Complete the registration process.


> Apply

Step1: Applicant have to visit the official portal. 
Step2: After login, dashboard will open.
Step3: Click on “ RAJKISAN ” option. 
Step4: In &quot;Citizen&quot;, click on &quot;Application Entry Request&quot;.
Step5: Enter the &quot;Bhamashah Family ID&quot; and search. 
Step6: Select the person name and scheme name. 
Step7: Complete the Aadhaar Authentication and click on get details. 
Step8: Provide the required details.
Pensioner Details.
Bank Details.
Disability Details.
Verification Details.
Upload Documents.
Step9: Submit. For more information, please refer to: Guidelines: https://rajkisan.rajasthan.gov.in/Rajkisanweb/ Registration: https://sso.rajasthan.gov.in/register Log In: https://sso.rajasthan.gov.in/signin Registration Video Tutorial: https://rajkisan.rajasthan.gov.in/Video/Citizen%20Login%20process%20manual.mp4 Tags associated with the scheme include: Child Development, Education, Financial, Girl.