The name of this welfare scheme is Incentive To Owners Of Artificial Insemination Born Female Calf Through Pure Breeding In Indigenous Cow. It is also known as IOAIBFCPBIC. The scheme “Incentive to Owners of Artificial Insemination Born Female Calf through Pure Breeding in Indigenous Cow” was started by the Department of Agriculture, Farmers Welfare &amp;amp; Co-operation, Government of Gujarat. The objective of this scheme is to avoid a decrease in the number of local pure breeds of Cow namely Gir and Kankrej and increase it to be properly maintained in the state. The scheme targets beneficiaries such as Individual. It is specifically implemented in Gujarat. The implementing agency is Directorate Of Animal Husbandry, Government Of Gujarat. Additionally, the nodal department is Agriculture, Farmers Welfare and Cooperation Department.

The scheme provides the following benefits: The incentive of ₹3000/will be given to owners of a female calf born through Artificial Insemination by pure breeding in indigenous cows.
The incentive/assistance shall be given once per year for one calf per beneficiary.

Eligibility criteria include: The applicant should be a permanent resident of Gujarat State.
The applicant should be the owner of a female calf born through artificial insemination by pure breeding in indigenous cows.
The age of the calf should not be more than 11 months as of the date of the online application.
The benefit of this scheme is eligible once per year for a maximum of one calf per beneficiary. The application process is as follows: Step 01: The owners of a female calf born through A.I. by pure breeding in an indigenous cow can apply online at IKhedut Portal.
https://ikhedut.gujarat.gov.in/iKhedutPublicScheme1/Public/frmPublicANH2SchemeApplicaiton.aspx
Step 02: Now, the applicant needs to select the scheme in the Animal Husbandry Schemes Section on the portal and click on &amp;quot;Click here for details&amp;quot;. 
Step 03: The applicant needs to select the desired scheme and read the instruction carefully and then click on ‘Apply’.
Step 04: Choose the option ‘Yes’ or ‘No’ and then click on “Click to proceed”.
Step 05: Click on the &amp;quot;Click to Apply New&amp;quot; button and submit a new application.
Step 06: Click on the &amp;quot;Update Application&amp;quot; button to add corrections to the application.
Step 07: Click on the &amp;quot;Upload Document&amp;quot; button to upload all the relevant documents.
Step 08: Once the application is done, confirm it. The application must be confirmed within seven days from the date of saving the online application.
Step 09: Take a printout of the confirmed application.
Step 10: The application must be signed and submitted along with the supporting documents to the nearby Veterinary Officer of the Veterinary Dispensary.
Step 11: Scanned copy of the application and other documents can be uploaded after confirming the application.


Note 01: The application will be inwardly taken online by the concerned officer/office only if the correct and sufficient documents are uploaded along with the application signed/fingerprinted by the beneficiary.
Note 02: If wrong/incomplete documents are uploaded online by the beneficiary, such application will not be inwarded online. In such circumstances, the beneficiary has to submit the remaining/correct documents in the concerned office within seven days of application.
Note 03: For the approval of the application form printout of the online application must be submitted to the nearby Veterinary Officer of Veterinary Dispensary.
Note 04: Scanned copy uploaded in PDF format should not exceed 200 KB in size. For more information, please refer to: Guideline: https://doah.gujarat.gov.in/intensive-cattle-development-programme.htm Tags associated with the scheme include: Artificial Insemination, Incentive, Indigenous Cow, Livestock.