The name of this welfare scheme is Award of Scholarship to the Children who are Recipients of National Child Award for Exceptional Achievements and Other National / International Merit Awards. It is also known as ASCRNCAEAONIMA. The scheme &quot;Award of Scholarship to the Children who are Recipients of National Child Award for Exceptional Achievements and Other National / International Merit Awards&quot; is a Scholarship Scheme by the Directorate of School Education, Union Territory of Puducherry. The objectives of this scheme are to recognize the talents of children who are recipients of the National Child Award for Exceptional Achievements and other National / International Merit Awards and to recognize the talents of other children who are pursuing outstanding achievements in different fields of Human Resource Development. The scheme targets beneficiaries such as Individual. It is specifically implemented in Puducherry. Additionally, the nodal department is Labour Department, Puducherry.

The scheme provides the following benefits: > Scholarship

₹6,000/per annum per student.
> Mode of Disbursal

The amount is disbursed directly into the Aadhaarseeded viable bank account by Direct Benefit Transfer (DBT) through the Electronic Clearance System (ECS).

Eligibility criteria include: The applicant should be domiciled in the Union Territory of Puducherry.
The applicant should be a recipient of the National Child Award for Exceptional Achievements and Other National / International Merit Awards
The applicant should study in an educational institution run by any State Government/ Central Government/ Private School recognized by the respective State/Central Government. The application process is as follows: Step 1: The interested applicant should visit the Head of the Institution (HoI) of his/her respective educational institution, and request the hard copy of the prescribed format of the application form for the concerned scheme.
Step 2: In the application form, fill in all the mandatory fields, paste the passportsized photograph (signed across, if required), and attach copies of all the mandatory documents (selfattest, if required).
Step 3: The interested applicant should submit the duly filled and signed application form and the documents to the HoI. The HoI then sends the applications to the Directorate of School Education, Puducherry. For more information, please refer to: Guidelines: https://schooledn.py.gov.in/Welfare/InnerPages/edu_National%20Child%20Award.html Tags associated with the scheme include: Award, Merit, Scholarship, School, Student.