The name of this welfare scheme is Pradhan Mantri Kisan Samman Nidhi. It is also known as PM-KISAN. #### Objective
The scheme aims to supplement the financial needs of all landholding farmers’ families by procuring various inputs to ensure proper crop health and appropriate yields, commensurate with the anticipated farm income as well as for domestic needs. Under the scheme an amount of ₹ 6000/- per year is released by the Central Government online directly into the bank accounts of the eligible farmers under Direct Benefit Transfer mode, subject to certain exclusions. The scheme targets beneficiaries such as Individual, Family. Additionally, the nodal ministry is Ministry Of Agriculture and Farmers Welfare and the nodal department is Department of Agriculture and Cooperation.

The scheme provides the following benefits: Financial benefit of Rs. 6000 per annum per family payable in three equal installments of Rs 2000 each, every four months.

Eligibility criteria include: All landholding farmers&#39; families, which have cultivable land holding in their names are eligible to get benefit under the scheme. The application process is as follows: Step 1: The following are the prerequisites for the enrollment process:


Aadhaar Card
Landholding paper
Savings bank account


Step 2: The VLE will fill in the complete details of farmer registration details like State, district, subdistrict block, and village, key in the Aadhaar number, Name of the beneficiary, category, Bank detail, Land Registration ID, and Date of birth as printed on Aadhaar card for authentication..
Step 3: The VLE will fill in the Land details like Survey/ Kahta No., Khasra no., and area of land as mentioned in land holding papers. 
Step 4: Upload the supporting documents like Land, Aadhar, and Bank passbook.
Step 5: Selfdeclaration accept and save the application form.
Step 6: After saving the application form make payment through CSC ID.
Step 7: Check the Beneficiary status through the Aadhaar number. For more information, please refer to: Scheme Guidelines: https://pmkisan.gov.in/Documents/RevisedPM-KISANOperationalGuidelines(English).pdf  Processes Of E-KYC: https://pmkisan.gov.in/Documents/Note-on-Modes-and-processes-of-ekyc-13th-Nov-English.pdf New Farmer Registration Form: https://pmkisan.gov.in/registrationformnew.aspx Know Your Registration: https://www.pmkisan.gov.in/KnowYour_Registration.aspx Tags associated with the scheme include: Agricultural Inputs, Agriculture, Farmers, Income Support, Kisan.