The name of this welfare scheme is Mukhyamantri Konya Atmonirbhor Yojana. It is also known as MKAY. The scheme &quot;Mukhyamantri Konya Atmonirbhor Yojana&quot; was launched by the Directorate of Higher Education, Government of Tripura. The meritorious girls studying in the 1st semester of a course in the General Degree Colleges in Tripura are provided with a free Scooty for travelling to their College. The aspiring student should apply as per the prescribed format to the Higher Education Department of Tripura through the College she is enrolled in. The scheme targets beneficiaries such as Individual. It is specifically implemented in Tripura. Additionally, the nodal department is Higher Education Department.

The scheme provides the following benefits: A free Scooty for the purpose of travelling to their College.

Eligibility criteria include: The applicant should be a resident of Tripura. 
The applicant should be a girl.    
The applicant should be a student.
The parents/guardians of the applicant should be a native of Tripura or have a continuous residence in Tripura for not less than ten years.
The applicant should be studying in the 1st semester of a course at the General Degree College in Tripura. The application process is as follows: Step 1: The interested applicant should request a hard copy of the prescribed format of the application form from the college staff.
OR
The interested applicant should take print of the prescribed format of the application form.
Step 2: In the application form, fill in all the mandatory fields, paste the passportsized photograph (signed across, if required), and attach copies of all the mandatory documents (selfattest, if required).
Step 3: Submit the duly filled and signed application form along with the documents to the Principal / PrincipalInCharge of their college. 
Step 4: Request a receipt or acknowledgement from the concerned authority to whom the application has been submitted. Ensure that the receipt contains essential details such as the date and time of submission, and a unique identification number (if applicable). For more information, please refer to: Guidelines And Application Form: https://highereducation.tripura.gov.in/sites/default/files/gtca.pdf Tags associated with the scheme include: Degree, Girl, Scooty, Student.