The name of this welfare scheme is Financial Assistance Scheme for Purchase of Agricultural Land to Scheduled Caste Farmers. It is also known as FASPALSCF. The scheme “Financial Assistance Scheme for Purchase of Agricultural Land to Scheduled Caste Farmers” is implemented by the Director Scheduled Caste Welfare, Department of Social Justice &amp;amp; Empowerment, Government of Gujarat. The scheme was launched in the year 1986. Under the scheme, financial assistance is provided to farmers belonging to the scheduled castes to purchase agricultural land, with a maximum limit of 2 acres, for self-cultivation. This initiative aims to enhance their income, particularly considering the dependence of many scheduled caste individuals on farm labour. The scheme targets beneficiaries such as Individual. It is specifically implemented in Gujarat. The implementing agency is District Deputy Director, Scheduled Caste Welfare Office, Gujarat. Additionally, the nodal department is Social Justice and Empowerment Department.

The scheme provides the following benefits: Under the scheme, Scheduled caste farmers are provided with financial assistance of ₹1,00,000/per acre to purchase agricultural land.
   Assistance is provided up to ₹2,00,000/for a maximum of 2 acres to enable the purchase of agricultural land.

Eligibility criteria include: The applicant should belong to Scheduled Castes Category.
   The applicant should be a native of Gujarat.
   The applicant must be an agricultural labourer.
   The annual income limit will be ₹6,00,000/for rural areas and ₹6,00,000/for urban areas.
   Excluding government assistance, only the beneficiary who is able to purchase the land is eligible for the benefit.
   Only one member of the family is eligible for the benefit.
   Beneficiaries of land acquired with government assistance will be subject to nonsale for 15 years.
   Under this scheme, assistance will be available for purchasing agricultural land from government or private individuals. The application process is as follows: Step 01: The eligible applicant may visit the eSamaj Kalyan Portal: https://esamajkalyan.gujarat.gov.in/
Step 02: On the home page, under the tab ‘Citizen Login’, click on New User ‘Please Register Here’.
Step 03: Enter your Full Name as per Aadhaar Card, Gender, Date of Birth, Aadhaar Card Number, Email ID, Caste etc. and then click on ‘Register’.
Step 04: After successful registration, the applicants can login through their User ID and Password.
Step 05: Now, click on ‘User Profile’ to update your profile.
Step 06: Fill in all the mandatory information and then click on ‘Update’. 
Step 07: After updating the profile successfully, select the scheme appearing on the home page; an application form will open.
Step 08: Fill in all the mandatory details in the application form and upload all the relevant documents.
Step 09: Now agree with the terms &amp;amp; conditions and click on ‘Save Application’.
Step 10: Submit the application form and take out the print of the application for future reference. The applicant can note down the application number to track the application status by logging into the portal using their User ID and Password.
User Manual For more information, please refer to: Official Website: https://sje.gujarat.gov.in/dscw/schemes/1582?lang=Gujarati Scheme Details: https://esamajkalyan.gujarat.gov.in/index.aspx?ServiceID=W3MI1Y5hLCqBY8BQ/1SGDQ== Application Form: https://sje.gujarat.gov.in/dscw/assets/downloads/App_form_4_14102021_45932.pdf E-Samaj Kalyan Portal: https://esamajkalyan.gujarat.gov.in/ Tags associated with the scheme include: Agriculture, Farmer, Financial Assistance, Purchase Of Land, Scheduled Caste.