The name of this welfare scheme is Scheme for Providing Employment Opportunities to Scheduled Castes by Establishing Livestock Units. It is also known as SPEOSCELU. The scheme “Scheme for Providing Employment Opportunities to Scheduled Castes by Establishing Livestock Units” is implemented by the Department of Animal Husbandry &amp;amp; Dairying, Government of Haryana. This is a credit-linked scheme with a primary objective of providing self-employment opportunities to Schedule castes, the unemployed persons will be assisted by way of establishing Dairy units, Piggery units, and Sheep/Goat units.
Long-term objectives:

  - To create self-employment opportunities for the Scheduled Castes families through animal husbandry activities.
  - To increase milk, wool, and meat production and overall productivity of livestock.
  - To up-gradate and develop valuable breeds/germplasm available in the State.
  - To increase per Capita milk availability in the state.

Medium-term objectives:

  - To provide gainful self-employment to the unemployed men/women of Scheduled Castes families.
  - To raise socio-economic status and to provide socio-economic security to Scheduled Castes Antyodaya families of Haryana.
  - To supplement the income of the families of the weaker sections.

The department would assist the beneficiaries in establishing these units in the following ways:

  - Sponsoring of loan applications to banks/financial institutions.
  - Purchase of animals, tagging, and issuance of Health certificates.
  - Providing Veterinary health and other facilities like free vaccination and management guidance etc.
  - Imparting 11 days of Dairy husbandry training at the concerned Sub Division/District Level in the State to the desirous persons. The scheme targets beneficiaries such as Individual. It is specifically implemented in Haryana. The implementing agency is Department Of Animal Husbandry & Dairying, Government Of Haryana. Additionally, the nodal department is Animal Husbandry & Dairying Department.

The scheme provides the following benefits: &gt; Financial Assistance under the Scheme:

Establishment of Dairy units of 2/3 milch animals: 

  50% subsidy on the cost of milch animals which has been availed as a loan for the purchase of these milch animals by the beneficiary for the establishment of dairy units of 2/3 milch animals;
  Establishment of 10+1 Piggery units:
  50% subsidy on the cost of livestock which has been availed as a loan by the beneficiary for the establishment of a 10+1 Piggery unit.
  A maximum amount of ₹50,000/will be provided as financial assistance in form of a subsidy.

Establishment of 15+1 Sheep/Goat units:

  90% subsidy on the cost of livestock which has been availed as a loan by the beneficiary for establishment of 15+1 Sheep/Goat unit.
  A maximum amount of ₹88,200/will be provided as financial assistance in form of a subsidy.

Note 01: The subsidy will be provided three months after the purchase of livestock or disbursement of the Loan by the bank, whichever is later, and subject to verification of unit by the concerned veterinary surgeon.
Note 02: The unit should be financed through a loan from the bank/financial institution.
Note 03: The subsidy would be provided in the loan account of the beneficiary.
&gt; Financial Assistance for Insurance of Livestock Unit:


  If any Livestock Insurance Scheme is operational by the Department or Haryana Livestock Development Board then the insurance of animals purchased for the establishment of unit is to be covered under that Scheme, wherever permissible.
  However, if no Livestock Insurance Scheme is operational then the Beneficiary/Bank would have to arrange for the insurance of the animals at their own.

Eligibility criteria include: The applicant should be of 18 to 55 years of age and a resident of Haryana.
   The applicant should belong to the Scheduled Caste community.
   The applicant must be unemployed (employment even in the private sector would bar an applicant from availing assistance under the Scheme).
   There will be no mandatory educational qualifications or training requirements.
   The applicant should have a space/shed for keeping animals.
   Any applicant who has earlier availed benefits under any Departmental Scheme for the establishment of a livestock unit would not be eligible for availing benefits under the Scheme.
   The applicant would have to submit a SelfDeclaration for being unemployed and for undertaking to abide by other conditions as required under the Scheme.

General Note:

  In case an applicant lives at a place other than where the animals are kept or intended to be kept. Then, the jurisdiction area will be the place where animals are kept or intended to be kept (Within state of Haryana only).
  Cost of mulch animals has been fixed as per the recommendation of the Unit Cost Committee of National Bank of Agriculture and Rural Development (NABARD) for the year The cost of the animal as determined by the Veterinary Surgeon may be lower depending upon age, number of lactations, breed characteristics, weight, etc., and the assistance as a subsidy would be provided on this lower cost. However, the maximum permissible cost for a grant of assistance as a subsidy would not exceed the cost indicated against in the tables mentioned above.
  The cost of Indigenous breeds of Red Sindhi, Tharparkar and Gir cows will be same as Sahiwal cow.
  Only those breeding animals should be purchased which are ready to bred or in prime age of production.
  Sexual maturity age in Female Goat &amp;amp; Sheep is 812 months. While in the case of Male Goat &amp;amp; Sheep, it is 1112 months. So, female and male goat and Sheep should be purchased between 1218 months of age.
  Sexual maturity age in Sow is 89 months. While in the case of Boar, it is 910 months. So, the Boar and Sows should be purchased between 811 months of age. The application process is as follows: > Registration Process on AntyodayaSARAL Portal:

Step 01: An applicant desirous of establishing livestock units may apply online through the Official PortalAntyodayaSARAL Portal. https://saralharyana.gov.in/
Step 02: If the applicant is not registered on the portal, he/she gets registered there. 
Step 03: For registration, click “New User” under ‘Sign In Here’ and fill in all the mandatory details i.e. Name, Email ID, Mobile Number, Password &amp;amp; State. Click on ‘Submit’.
Step 04: Verify your mobile number and email ID through the received OTP and complete the registration process.
&gt; Login to apply for the scheme:

Step 01: To avail the benefits of the scheme, visit the Official AntyodayaSARAL Portal and log in through the email ID used while registering.
Step 02: Enter Password &amp;amp; Captcha and click on ‘Login’.
Step 03: After successful login, click on ‘Apply for Services’ and then ‘View all Available Services’
Step 04: Now, you can search for the scheme and click on the scheme to go ahead and fill out the application form.
Step 05: Enter your Parivar Pehchan Patra number Family ID and click on “Click here to Fetch Family Data” which displays the family members registered under the given Family ID.
Step 06: Select the beneficiary/applicant name and enter the OTP that is being sent to the selected family member for verification. Click on “Click to Verify”
Step 07: Fill in all the mandatory details and upload all the mandatory documents.
Step 08: Preview the application form and click on ‘Submit’.
&gt; Tracking of Application:

Applicants can track his/her application through the Official AntyodayaSARAL Portal by entering their Department Name, Scheme Name, and Application Reference ID. 
&gt; Selection of beneficiaries and sponsoring the case to Banks for sanction of loan (Dairy, Piggery and Sheep/Goat units): 


  The Deputy Director of the concerned district would examine the applications received on the portal on a first come first serve basis. Applications not found in order would be rejected with the comments on the portal. The applications found in order will be accepted and forwarded to the concerned Sub Divisional Officer within a period of three working days.
  The valid applications along with attached documents clearly indicating the required amount of loan will be sent to the concerned service provider area bank by the Sub Divisional Officer through Email with in a period of three working days in the format annexed as AnnexureThe applicant may submit the application through Common Service Centres, Antodaya Kendra, Atal Sewa Kendra, edisha Centres, or any other such centre. For more information, please refer to: Official Website: https://pashudhanharyana.gov.in/ Guidelines: https://pashudhanharyana.gov.in/sites/default/files/documents/Scheme%202023-24/SCSP%20Scheme.pdf Scheme Details: https://kms.saralharyana.nic.in/ViewDoc?Id=EunGm92g3NFjEXjW21FoZQ%3d%3d Antyodaya-SARAL Portal: https://saralharyana.gov.in/ Tags associated with the scheme include: Employment, Financial Assistance, Goat Unit, Livestock Unit, Milch Animals, Piggery Unit, Scheduled Caste, Self-employment, Sheep Unit, Subsidy, Unemployed.