The name of this welfare scheme is Mukhyamantri Covid-19 Bal Seva Yojana. It is also known as MCBSY. The Madhya Pradesh government launched the Mukhyamantri Covid-19 Bal Seva Yojana under the Women and Child Development Department. Under this scheme, a pension on monthly basis will be provided to all those children whose parents or guardians have died due to coronavirus infection. This pension will be provided till the child attains the age of 21 years. Apart from this, education and ration facilities will also be provided. All those children whose parents or guardians have died between March 1, 2020, and July 31 will be able to avail the benefits of this scheme. Only the natives of the state can avail the benefit of this scheme. The scheme targets beneficiaries such as Individual. It is specifically implemented in Madhya Pradesh. Additionally, the nodal department is Women and Child Development Department.

The scheme provides the following benefits: > Financial Assistance:


Each child beneficiary receives ₹5,000/per month deposited in a joint account until they turn Guardian and child receive free monthly ration under National Food Security Act.

> Education Assistance:


School Education:



   Free education in government schools.
   Fees paid for RTE provision private schools.
   RTE reimbursement limit for other private schools.



Class 9 to 12:



   Free education in government schools.
   ₹10,000/per year for private school students.
   Additional to scholarships and other benefits.



Higher Education:



   General Courses.
   Full fee assistance in government/aided universities.
   Up to ₹15,000/fee reimbursement in private universities.



Technical Education:



   Full fee assistance in government/aided colleges.
   Up to ₹1,50,000/per year or actual fee in private colleges (JEE Mains/separate entrance exam).
   Up to ₹75,000/per year or actual fee in private colleges (12th class exam).



Medical Education and AYUSH:



   Full fee assistance in government/private colleges based on NEET score.
   Doctors serve in rural areas for 25 years (bond required).

Eligibility criteria include: The affected family should be a local resident of Madhya Pradesh.
The family should not be eligible to avail the benefits of Chief Minister Covid19 Yodha Kalyan Yojana.
The deceased parents of the child beneficiary should not have been government servants or employees of a government undertaking who were eligible to receive pension under the old pension scheme.
Such boys/girls whose age is 21 years or less, but till the prescribed duration of graduation course, whichever is less and whoseParent has died from COVID19 or
  Parents have died earlier and their legal guardian has died due to CovidOne of the parents has died in the past and now the other has died of CovidOnly During from 01 March 2021 to 30 June 2021 The application process is as follows: > Registration

Step1: First of all applicant need to go to the official website of the Chief Minister COVID19 Child Welfare Scheme.
Step2: After this, you will have to click on the option &quot;Aavedan kare&quot;
Step3: Now the home page will open in front of you click on &quot;SignUP&quot;
Step4: Now you will have to enter your name, mobile number, email ID, password, etc.
Step5: Now you have to click on the register option.


> Apply

Step1: First of all you have to go to the official website of the Chief Minister COVID19 Child Welfare Scheme.
Step2: After this, you will have to click on the option &quot;Aavedan kare&quot;
Step3: you will have to click on the login option.
Step4: Now you have to enter your mobile number and password.
Step5: After this you have to click on the submit option.
Step6  Now you have to click on the option of Chief Minister Covid19 Child Welfare Scheme.
Step7: Now the application form will open in front of you.
Step8: You have to enter all the important information asked in the application form such as your name, email ID, mobile number etc.
Step9: Now you have to upload all the important documents.
Step10: After this you have to click on the submit option. For more information, please refer to: Guidelines: https://mpwcdmis.gov.in/Downloads/CM%20covid%2019%20Baal%20kalyan%20yojna.pdf Documents: https://services.mp.gov.in/main/balseva Register & Apply: http://covidbalkalyan.mp.gov.in/ Tags associated with the scheme include: Children Care, Educaction, Financial Support.