The name of this welfare scheme is Marriage Grant for the Marriage of Daughters of Widows of Ex-servicemen (other than War Widows). It is also known as MGMDWESMWW. The &amp;quot;Marriage Grant for the Marriage of Daughters of Widows of Ex-servicemen (other than War Widows)&amp;quot; scheme is implemented by the Sainik and Ardh Sainik Welfare Department, Government of Haryana. Under this scheme, financial assistance of ₹11,000/- is provided to the widows of ex-servicemen (other than war widows) for the marriage of their daughters, for up to two daughters who are at least 18 years old. The scheme targets beneficiaries such as Individual. It is specifically implemented in Haryana. The implementing agency is Sainik And Ardh Sainik Welfare Department, Government Of Haryana. Additionally, the nodal department is Sainik and Ardh Sainik Welfare Department.

The scheme provides the following benefits: Financial assistance of ₹11,000/is given to the widows of exservicemen (other than war widows) for the marriage of their daughters.

Eligibility criteria include: The applicant should be a resident of Haryana.
   The applicant should be the widow of an exserviceman who did not die in the war (other than a war widow).
   The daughter should be at least 18 years old.
   The widow can receive the benefit for up to two of her daughters.
   The widow should not have remarried. If remarried, she should only have married the real brother of her late husband.

Note: The entire verification of claimants will be carried out at the level of the Secretaries of Zila Sainik Boards as hithertofore. The application process is as follows: &gt; Registration Process on AntyodayaSARAL Portal:

Step 1: The eligible applicant may apply online through the Official PortalAntyodayaSARAL Portal. 
Step 2: If the applicant is not registered on the portal, he/she gets registered there. 
Step 3: For registration, click “New User” under ‘Sign In Here’ and fill in all the mandatory details i.e. Name, Email ID, Mobile Number, Password &amp;amp; State. Click on ‘Submit’.
Step 4: Verify your mobile number and email ID through the received OTP and complete the registration process.
&gt; Login to apply for the scheme:

Step 1: To avail the benefits of the scheme, visit the Official AntyodayaSARAL Portal and log in through the email ID used while registering.
Step 2: Enter Password &amp;amp; Captcha and click on ‘Login’.
Step 3: After successful login, click on ‘Apply for Services’ and then ‘View all Available Services’.
Step 4: Now, you can search for the scheme and download the predefined documents form/template and you will need to upload the filledin/signed form/template in the &amp;#39;Attach Enclosures&amp;#39; screen.
Step 5: Click on ‘Proceed to Apply’ to fill out the application form. Enter your Parivar Pehchan Patra numberFamily ID and click on “Click here to Fetch Family Data” which displays the family members registered under the given Family ID.
Step 6: Select the beneficiary/applicant name and enter the OTP that is being sent to the selected family member for verification. Click on “Click to Verify”
Step 7: Fill in all the mandatory details and upload all the mandatory documents.
Step 8: Preview the application form and click on ‘Submit’.
&gt; Tracking of Application:

Applicants can track their applications through the Official AntyodayaSARAL Portal by entering their Department Name, Scheme Name, and Application Reference ID. For more information, please refer to: Scheme Details: https://kms.saralharyana.nic.in/ViewDoc?Id=MciCAGC0ON6C0+2LU31oxg%3d%3d Notification: https://csharyana.gov.in/WriteReadData/Policies/Defence-II/2524.pdf Antyodaya-SARAL Portal: https://saralharyana.gov.in/ Tags associated with the scheme include: Daughter, Ex-Serviceman, Financial Assistance, Marriage, Widow.