The name of this welfare scheme is Mukhya Mantri Shahri Ajeevika Guarantee Yojna. It is also known as MMSAGY. The “Mukhya Mantri Shahri Ajeevika Guarantee Yojna” was launched by the Department of Urban Development, Government of Himachal Pradesh. The objective of the scheme is to enhance livelihood security in urban areas by providing 120 days of guaranteed wage employment to every household in a financial year. The scheme will be implemented in all the Urban Local Bodies (ULBs) and Cantonment Boards (CBs) in Himachal Pradesh.
&gt; Goals of the Scheme:


  - To ensure livelihood security to urban households by providing guaranteed employment for 120 days.
  - To facilitate skill enhancement of persons engaged in waged labour jobs to provide them with better livelihood opportunities and to set up their enterprises by imparting entrepreneurship training as well as subsidy-linked credit linkages.
  - To strengthen urban infrastructure and provisioning of quality civic amenities in the Urban Local Bodies (ULBs). The scheme targets beneficiaries such as Individual. It is specifically implemented in Himachal Pradesh. The implementing agency is Department Of Urban Development, Government Of Himachal Pradesh. Additionally, the nodal department is Department of Urban Development.

The scheme provides the following benefits: > Guaranteed Employment:


  The scheme provides guaranteed 120 days of employment to eligible beneficiaries in urban local bodies to ensure livelihood security.
  The ULBs shall not employ an eligible beneficiary for more than 120 days in any financial year.
  Employment will be given to the eligible beneficiary within 15 days of registration, failing which an unemployment allowance of ₹75 per day will be paid by the ULBs.

&gt; Maximum Period for Employment:


  The maximum period for which employment will be provided to a household shall be 120 days.

&gt; Skill Training:


  The eligible beneficiaries under this scheme will also be provided skill training under the Deen Dyal AntodayaNational Urban Livelihood Mission (DAYNULM), to create further opportunities for better livelihood.
  The eligible beneficiary will be provided skill training with entitlement to minimum wage as notified by the government up to a maximum of four weeks only after doing wage employment of 30 days under MMSAGY.

&gt; Bank Linkage:


  The eligible beneficiary so skilled under this scheme will be facilitated to apply for loans under DAYNULM.
  The eligible beneficiary provided skill training above, willing to start their Enterprise will be linked to the banks under the Self Employment Programme (SEP) of DAYNULM.

&amp;gt; Payment of Wages:


  Eligible beneficiaries under the scheme will be entitled to minimum wage notified by the State Government.
  Equal wages are to be paid to both male and female workers.
  Wages will be directly deposited in the bank account of eligible beneficiaries by the Urban Local Bodies on a fortnightly basis not later than 7 days after completion of 15 days of employment.
  The payment of wages as prescribed supra will be made after due verification of the attendance by the Junior Engineer or any other officer/official authorized by the Urban Local Body.
  The payment made above will be adjusted/deducted from the bills of the implementing agency before making its payment.

Eligibility criteria include: All adult members of the household who register under this scheme will be eligible to work. To register they have to be:

  Local resident of the Urban Local Body. (Meaning thereby they should be residing within the jurisdiction of the Urban Local Body either in their own house or on rent).
  Willing to do unskilled work at projects being executed or in Sanitation Services being provided by the Urban Local Bodies.

The household will comprise of husband, wife, and their minor children. However, only adult members of the household shall be eligible to work.
The upper age limit for providing work shall be 65 years.
&gt; Permissible Activities:

All eligible beneficiaries will be employed in the following permissible activities in ULBs:

  In any ongoing or new admissible work under any Govt. of H.P./Govt. of India scheme for which funds are available with ULB.
  In any admissible work under the 15th Finance Commission or 5ffi State Finance Commission for which grantinaid is provided to the ULBs.
  Sanitation Works/Services as admissible under Solid Waste Management Rules, 2016 and Swachh Bharat Mission. The sanitation works/services may include activities like street sweeping, garbage collection, processing/removal of legacy waste, waste segregation, cleaning of garbage from hill slopes or other litter points, cleaning and maintaining municipal parks, and cleaning of municipal parking.

The Urban Local Bodies shall not start any musterroll linked work/activity under this scheme and shall get eligible beneficiaries employed only in the works specified above (a).
The Urban Local Bodies shall make enabling provisions in all new contracts to be awarded for engaging eligible beneficiaries under MMSAGY as unskilled workers by the implementing agency. For the works already awarded, the Urban Local Bodies will coordinate with the implementing agency to which the work has been awarded for engaging the registered eligible beneficiaries under MMSAGY. The application process is as follows: Step 01: The applicant, who wants to avail benefits of the scheme, may visit the Online Portal of the scheme.
Step 02: On the home page, click on “Applicant Registration” and fill in all the mandatory details.
Step 03: After filling details, click on “Generate Username and Password”.
Step 04: After successful registration, the applicant can login to fill the application form by clicking on “Applicant Login”.
Note 05: Applicant can submit the application form by filling in all the details &amp;amp; uploading all the required documents. > Application Process:

Step 01: Any eligible applicant may apply to get registered with the Urban Local Body as per AnnexureB. 
Step 02: The applicant needs to fill out the application form (AnnexureB) completely and submit it to the Urban Local Body along with all the relevant documents.
Note: All eligible beneficiaries of a household will be registered through a single application only. No separate applications are required.
&gt; PostApplication Process:

Step 01: The ULBs after due verification will issue a Job Card free of cost as per AnnexureC.
Step 02: The Job Card will bear the photographs of the registered beneficiaries.
Step 03: The Job Card will be issued within 7 days of registration. For more information, please refer to: Official Website: http://www.ud.hp.gov.in/mukhya-mantri-shahri-ajeevika-guarantee-yojna-mmsagy Guidelines: http://www.ud.hp.gov.in/sites/default/files/MMSAGY/Purpose_of_Scheme.pdf Revised Amendment: http://www.ud.hp.gov.in/sites/default/files/MMSAGY/amendment%20in%207%20a%20iii%20(1).pdf Online Portal: https://mmsagyud.hp.gov.in/ Tags associated with the scheme include: Employment, Entrepreneurship Training, Job, Livelihood, Urban, Urban Local Body.