The name of this welfare scheme is Retrofitted Petrol Scooters - Tamil Nadu. It is also known as RPSTN. The &#39;Retrofitted Petrol Scooters by Welfare of Differently Abled Persons Department&#39; scheme was launched by the Department for the Welfare of Differently Abled Persons, Government. of Tamil Nadu. The scheme aims to provide a retrofitted petrol scooter to orthopedically differently-abled persons whose legs are affected. The students, employed and self-employed differently abled persons are eligible to get the scheme benefits. The scheme targets beneficiaries such as Individual. It is specifically implemented in Tamil Nadu. Additionally, the nodal department is Welfare of Differently Abled Persons Department.

The scheme provides the following benefits: Free distribution of retrofitted petrol scooters.

Eligibility criteria include: The applicant should be an orthopedically differently abled person. 
The applicant&#39;s age should be 18 years or above. 
The applicant should be a resident of the district/area of Tamil Nadu.
The applicant should be any one of the following:



  Student.
  Employed (working in private organizations).
  Selfemployed. The application process is as follows: Step 1: The interested applicant should visit (during office hours) the District Differently Abled Welfare Officer and request a hard copy of the prescribed format of the application form from the staff exclusively entrusted to issue and collect filledin applications.
Step 2: In the application form, fill in all the mandatory fields, and attach copies of all the mandatory documents (selfattest, if required).
Step 3: Submit the duly filled and signed application form along with the documents to the District Differently Abled Welfare Officer.
Step 4: Request a receipt or acknowledgment from the District Differently Abled Welfare Officer to whom the application has been submitted. Ensure that the receipt contains essential details such as the date and time of submission, and a unique identification number (if applicable). For more information, please refer to: Citizen's Charter (2022): https://cms.tn.gov.in/sites/default/files/documents/wda_e_cc_2022_23.pdf Tags associated with the scheme include: Differently Abled Person, Employed, Orthopedically, Scooter, Social Welfare, Student.