The name of this welfare scheme is Coir Vikas Yojana-Skill Upgradation and Mahila Coir Yojana. It is also known as  CVY-SUMCY. The scheme “Skill Upgradation and Mahila Coir Yojana” is a component of “Coir Vikas Yojana (CVY)” and the scheme was launched by the Ministry of Micro, Small &amp;amp; Medium Enterprises, Government of India. The Scheme, “Skill Upgradation &amp;amp; Mahila Coir Yojana” consists of two distinct components i.e. (a) Skill Upgradation, (b) Mahila Coir Yojana.
      Under the scheme, the Board is conducting various programmes like the Entrepreneurship Development Programme, Awareness Programme, Workshop, Seminar, Exposure Tour, etc. to attract more entrepreneurs to start coir processing units. In order to create the skilled manpower required for the coir industry the Board is implementing various training programmes such as training on manufacturing of value-added coir products, spinning, weaving and other product diversification processes. All these training programmes are also available for women under the Mahila Coir Yojana.
&gt; The objectives of the scheme are to:-


  - train personnel in the cadres of Supervisors/Instructors/Artisans to meet the requirement of skilled manpower for the development of the coir industry.
  - help in the transfer of technology to non-traditional areas through the development of skills of coir workers.
  - provide coir yarn spinning ratts, coir processing equipment, machinery items, etc. with a subsidy of 75% under the Mahila Coir Yojana.
  - provide self-employment to rural woman artisans in regions producing coir fibre and enabling them to get better returns through the improvement of productivity and quality. Providing them with a better work environment and eliminating of drudgery involved in the traditional methods of spinning and product manufacturing.
  - encourage new entrepreneurs both in traditional and non-traditional areas under Entrepreneurship Development Programmes to venture into coir industry and trade and thereby accelerate the development of the industry in the existing and new areas.
  - aim at inculcating quality consciousness among the workers at the grassroots level and educate them on proper methods of producing standard quality fibre, yarn and products.
  - create awareness among the coconut growers, entrepreneurs etc. to set up coir-based units and to modernize the existing units for better productivity, and quality and also enhance earnings.
  - contribute to generating employment in rural areas of the coconut-producing States. The scheme targets beneficiaries such as Government Organisation, NGO, Self Help Groups (SHGS). The implementing agency is Regional/ Sub-regional Offices/ Training Centres Of The Board, Coir Board, Kochi. Additionally, the nodal ministry is Ministry Of Micro, Small and Medium Enterprises.

The scheme provides the following benefits: Nature of assistance: Coir workers/entrepreneurs will get an awareness of modern technologies developed by the Coir Board. The training programme will help the trainees/ artisans to upgrade their skills in producing coir yarn and other diversified coir products. Management skills can also be acquired by attending EDP programmes to the entrepreneurs to run the Coir units more effectively and efficiently.
&gt; Skill Upgradation:


  Under the scheme, the Board is conducting various programmes like the Entrepreneurship Development Programme, Awareness Programme, Workshop, Seminar, Exposure Tour, etc. To attract more entrepreneurs to start coir processing units. In order to create the skilled manpower required for the coir Industry the Board is implementing various valueadded products training programmes.
  The candidates undergoing these skill development training programmes are given a monthly stipend amounting to ₹3000/per month and in the case of training programmes of less than onemonth duration, the stipend will be disbursed on a prorata basis.
  The honorarium for the trainer will be limited to ₹15,000/per month.
  An amount of ₹400/per head per month will be provided as financial assistance to the training sponsoring agency to meet the operational cost of the training for raw material, power charges, other incidentals etc. on submission of a selfcertification of Expenditure from the Sponsoring Agency which will be verified and passed by the Regional/Sub Regional Officer for effecting the payment.

&gt; Mahila Coir Yojana (MYC):


  The programme envisages providing training only to women artisans.
  The Board is conducting a training programme under the “Mahila Coir Yojana” scheme which is exclusive for rural women artisans. Under the scheme, the training is given in spinning of coir yarn/ various coir processing activities to rural women in regions producing coir fibre in the country.
  The training will be provided on sophisticated machinery/advanced technology in order to scale up the skills of the Mahila Coir Workers.
  The MCY training will be integrated along with LBI in order to make the MCY trainees more entrepreneurial.
  The trained women will be encouraged to avail of assistance under CVY (merged with PMEGP), to set up a unit/start selfemployment. The yearwise target for the coir sector will be provided under the PMEGP. Necessary handholding support will be provided by the Coir Board through its field officer to the women artisans to avail of assistance under PMEGP.
  The scheme envisages the distribution of motorized ratts/motorized traditional ratts/electronic ratt for spinning coir yarn; equipment for weaving spinning and production and valueadded products to trained women artisans.
  The financial assistance for procurement of machines/equipment may be obtained under the PMEGP scheme for setting up new coir units for which the maximum project cost is up to ₹25 lakhs.

Eligibility criteria include: Self Help Groups (SHGs), NGOs registered in the Darpan Portal of NITI Aayog, and Government Organizations can apply through the Regional /Sub Regional Office of the Board for organizing training programs at the field level.
   The Selfhelp Groups (SHGs), NGOs, and Government Organizations should have adequate infrastructural facilities such as work sheds, power connections, equipment, and raw materials. The application process is as follows: Self Help Groups (SHGs), NGOs registered in the Darpan portal of NITI Aayog, and Government Organizations can apply through the Regional /Sub Regional Office of the Board for organizing training programs at the field level.
  Application Forms for the Scheme (Skill Upgradation and Mahila Coir Yojana) For more information, please refer to: Guideline-MSME: https://msme.gov.in/sites/default/files/Revised_Operation_Guidelines_of_CVY.pdf Coir Board Website: http://coirboard.gov.in/?page_id=221 Coir Board: http://coirboard.gov.in/?page_id=8452 Guideline-1: https://msme.gov.in/sites/default/files/Coir-Vikas-YojanaContents.pdf Guideline-2: http://coirboard.gov.in/wp-content/uploads/2018/03/coir-final.pdf Tags associated with the scheme include: Coir, Entrepreneur, Mahila, MSME, Self-employment, Skill Upgradation, Stipend, Training.