The name of this welfare scheme is IGSTC Industrial Fellowship- PhD Industrial Exposure Fellowship. It is also known as IGSTCIFPHDIEF. The Indo-German Science &amp;amp; Technology Centre (IGSTC) Industrial Fellowship Programme was launched by the Secretary, Department of Science and Technology, Govt. of India on the occasion of IGSTC’s 11th Foundation Day on 14th June 2021 to support young Indian researchers for industrial exposure at German industries and industrial R&amp;amp;D institutions.
         Indo-German Science &amp;amp; Technology Centre (IGSTC), established by the Department of Science and Technology (DST), Government of India, and the Federal Ministry of Education and Research (BMBF), Government of Germany invites applications for availing Industrial Fellowships to encourage young researchers towards applied research. This programme is aimed at encouraging PhD students/researchers in S&amp;amp;T with an appreciable track record and having aptitude for applied research and technology development.  
&gt; The proposed programme aims to:


  - Motivate young Indian researchers towards applied research and build capacity to foster innovation and technology development through exposure at advanced German industrial ecosystems.
  - Encourage and enable Indo-German collaboration between industry-academia and industry-industry linkages through outstanding researchers.
  - Expose researchers to industry and industrial R&amp;amp;D enhancing interest towards applied research.
  - Create avenues for capacity building through doctoral and early career researchers in applied research through networking with industry.

&gt; Duration of Fellowship:


  - The duration of the Fellowship is 3-6 months.
  - Extension in duration of Fellowship shall not be entertained. The scheme targets beneficiaries such as Individual. The implementing agency is Indo-German Science & Technology Centre, Govt. Of India. Additionally, the nodal ministry is Ministry Of Science And Technology and the nodal department is Department Of Science & Technology.

The scheme provides the following benefits: The financial support will be limited to:

The Fellowship amount is €1500 per month.
Single round trip economy class airfare including visa fees and travel insurance: up to €Health Insurance: As per actuals with a maximum limit of €100 per month.

Eligibility criteria include: The applicant should be an Indian citizen.
   The maximum age limit of the applicant should be 30 years.
   PhD students (science/engineering) enrolled in any research institutions/universities in India and completed at least one year of their PhD curriculum can apply for the fellowship.
   Young researchers who have completed one year of their PhD course in Science/Engineering from India are eligible.
   Young researchers with highquality research projects that combine innovative approaches towards new concepts and technological development in chosen industrial research set up in Germany may be considered.

Note 01: The applicant must define a detailed activity plan containing the objective, execution strategy, and expected outcome for the fellowship duration.
Note 02: The Awardee will be hosted by the industry/industrial research organization for the duration of the Fellowship. Choice and acceptance from the industry/industrial research organization is the sole responsibility of the applicant. The applicant should ensure an endorsement/consent letter from the host industry/organization at the time of the application.
Note 03: The applicant having institutional affiliation shall submit NOC from the Head of the institution at the time of application.
Note 04: Applicants shall submit a recommendation letter from the mentor at the parent organization.
Note 05: The awardee will abide by the conduct, rules &amp;amp; regulations of the German host organization and the country. IGSTC will not be responsible for the violation of any Rules and regulations by the awardee.
Note 06: IGSTC will disburse the grant to the Indian bank account of the awardee/parent institution in INR.
Note 07: The awardee shall commence his/her visit within 3 months from the date of the result.
Note 08: The awardee/host mentor must inform IGSTC through email/letter if the awardee discontinues the Fellowship before the completion of the tenure.
Note 09: Within 4 weeks of completion of the Fellowship, the awardee must submit a detailed Fellowship completion report endorsed by the host mentor in the prescribed format along with representative photos to IGSTC.
Note 10: The awardee must recognize and acknowledge IGSTC Industrial Fellowship in all online/print documents, communication, reports, publications, PhD thesis, etc. on work resulting from the Fellowship. The application process is as follows: &gt; Application Process:

Step 01: IGSTC will advertise the Fellowship call once in a year through the IGSTC website (www.igstc.org) and other means. 
Step 02: The prospective candidates need to apply online in the application portal along with the required attachments within the deadline as mentioned in the Advertisement/Call text.
Note: The application that should be submitted by other mechanisms will not be accepted.
&gt; Evaluation:

Applications will be evaluated by a Scientific Committee based on merit and compliance with the eligibility conditions. The decision of the Committee will be considered as final and binding.
&gt; Contact:

For queries:
Phone: +9101126543500
Email: industrial.fellowship@igstc.org
Mailing Address:
IndoGerman Science &amp;amp; Technology Centre
Ground Floor, Block – II, Technology Bhavan,
New Mehrauli Road, New Delhi – 110016, India For more information, please refer to: Official Website: https://www.igstc.org/home/industrial_fellowships Guidelines: https://www.igstc.org/home/industrial_fellowships_guidelines ISTI Website: https://www.indiascienceandtechnology.gov.in/ Tags associated with the scheme include: Fellowship, Germany, IGSTC, Indo-German, Industrial Exposure, PhD, Research.