The name of this welfare scheme is Dhanvantari Arogya Rath Yojana (GBOCWWB). It is also known as DARY(GBOCWWB). The “Dhanvantari Arogya Rath Yojana” was launched by the Gujarat Building and Other Construction Worker’s Welfare Board (GBOCWWB), Labour, Skill Development &amp;amp; Employment Department, Government of Gujarat. The scheme has been implemented to ensure that construction workers and their families get primary medical treatment at their doorsteps, prevent serious diseases, and maintain their health at places including construction sites, labour colonies, and Kadianaka. The scheme is implemented by EMRI Green Health Services Gujarat (GVK-108) through making a tripartite MoU with the Health Department and EMRI Green Health Services Gujarat. The scheme targets beneficiaries such as Family, Individual. It is specifically implemented in Gujarat. The implementing agency is EMRI Green Health Services Gujarat. Additionally, the nodal department is Labour and Employment Department.

The scheme provides the following benefits: Under this scheme, treatment of primary injuries including common diseases like fever, diarrhea, vomiting, skin diseases and laboratory tests like urine, blood, blood sugar, malaria, and various diagnoses including primary care of women and children of their family and primary care of pregnant women during pregnancy done on the spot. Along with this, they are also given free medicines on the spot.

Eligibility criteria include: The benefits of this scheme can be availed by construction workers registered with the Gujarat Building and Other Construction Worker’s Welfare Board and their family members. The application process is as follows: •	First aid is provided by the Dhanvantari Arogya Rath at Kadianaka &amp;amp; construction sites.
•	The registered construction workers and their family members can avail the benefits by visiting there. For more information, please refer to: Official Website: https://bocwwb.gujarat.gov.in/schemes.htm Guidelines: https://bocwwb.gujarat.gov.in/Portal/Document/10_371_1_Dhanvantari_Arogya_Rath_Yojana.pdf Tags associated with the scheme include: Building Worker, Common Diseases, Construction Worker, Free Medicines, Labour, Primary Medical Treatment.