The name of this welfare scheme is "Insurance Scheme For Artisans" Component of the "Development of Handicrafts" Scheme. It is also known as ISA. The &quot;Insurance Scheme For Artisans&quot; component of the &quot;Development of Handicrafts&quot; scheme by the Department of Industries and Commerce, Government of Puducherry, was introduced to provide an important welfare measure for handicraft artisans. Under this scheme, artisans are covered under Jana Shree Bima Yojana LIC or any other suitable policy. The premium amount, as stipulated in the insurance policy, is shared, with 50% from the Social Security Fund and the remaining 50% from the Government through DIC. The scheme targets beneficiaries such as Individual. It is specifically implemented in Puducherry. Additionally, the nodal department is Industries and Commerce Department, Puducherry.

The scheme provides the following benefits: Assistance in the case of Natural Death: ₹20,000/.
Assistance in the case of Death Due to Accident: ₹50,000/.
Assistance in the case of Permanent Total Disability Due to Accident (Loss of Two Eyes or Two Limbs): ₹50,000/.
Assistance in the case of Permanent Partial Disability (Loss of One Eye or One Limb Due to Accident): ₹25,000/.

Eligibility criteria include: The applicant should be a handicraft artisan.
The applicant should be a resident of the Union Territory of Puducherry.
The applicant should be aged between 18 to 60 years.
The applicant should comply with the conditions stipulated under the insurance policy. The application process is as follows: Step 1: The interested applicant should take print of the prescribed format of the application form.
Step 2: In the application form, fill in all the mandatory fields, paste the passportsized photograph (signed across, if required), and attach copies of all the mandatory documents (selfattest, if required).
Step 3: The interested applicant should visit (on a working day, and during office hours) the Project Manager of the District Industries Centre (Thattanchavady, Puducherry 605 009), and submit the duly filled and signed application form and the documents to the concerned authority.
Step 4: On receipt of the application, necessary entries will be made in the application receipt register and a unique number is assigned to the applicant for identifying each applicant which shall be used for all further references and also as acknowledgement for the receipt of the application. For more information, please refer to: Guidelines: https://dic.py.gov.in/development-of-handicrafts Citizen's Charter: https://dic.py.gov.in/sites/default/files/citizencharter.pdf Contact Us: https://dic.py.gov.in/contact-us Grievance Redressal: https://industry.py.gov.in/grievance-redressal-mechanism Tags associated with the scheme include: Artisans, Death, Disability, Insurance, LIC.