The name of this welfare scheme is Plastic Mulching. It is also known as PM. The plastic Mulching scheme under the Agriculture Department of the Rajasthan government provided subsidies to farmers. Using plastic mulch helps prevent soil compaction and compaction. This material blocks moisture and heat and limits the loss of plant nutrients. Plastic mulch is the most restrictive of all the mulching materials available on the market, so it is well-suited for drip irrigation. Additionally, the plastic layer prevents people and pets from walking in the area, further strengthening the soil structure.


> Other important points


1. Plastic mulching can be constructed only after administrative approval is issued by the Horticulture Department.
1. Verification can be done by the committee formed after construction.
1. The payment of the grant amount will be transferred directly to the farmer&#39;s bank account. The scheme targets beneficiaries such as Individual. It is specifically implemented in Rajasthan. Additionally, the nodal department is Agriculture Department.

The scheme provides the following benefits: Small/marginal farmers can get a 25% subsidy on up to 2 hectares of land.
Other farmers can get a 50% subsidy on up to 2 hectares of land.

Eligibility criteria include: The applicant should be a farmer.
The applicant should be a native of Rajasthan.
The applicant must have agricultural land ownership and irrigation sources. The application process is as follows: > Registration

Step1: Applicant have to visit the official portal. 
Step2: Click on the option “Register”.
Step3: Then you will be redirected to the SSO registration page. The registration page will appear with the following options.


  Citizen


Step4: Choose the either one option from  the Jan Aadhaar Or Google to process further.


  Jan Aadhaar : Enter the Jan Aadhaar number, click on the ‘Next’ button,


      Select your name, the name of the head of the family and all the other members and 
      Click on the ‘Send OTP’ button. Enter the ‘OTP’ and 
      Click on the ‘Verify OTP’ button to Complete the registration. 






  Google : Enter the Gmail ID, click on the ‘Next’ button, 


      Enter the password.
      A new link appear on screen, now click on new SSO link.
      SSO id will appear on screen, now create the password.
      Enter Mobile number, click on registration.




Step5: Complete the registration process.


> Apply

Step1: Applicant have to visit the official portal. 
Step2: After login, dashboard will open.
Step3: Click on “ RAJKISAN ” option. 
Step4: In &quot;Farmer&quot;, click on &quot;Application Entry Request&quot;.
Step5: Enter the &quot;Bhamashah ID&quot; or &quot;Janaadhaar ID&quot; and search.  
Step6: Select the person&#39;s name and scheme name. 
Step7: Complete the Aadhaar Authentication and click on Get details. 
Step8: Provide the required details.
            Pensioner Details.
            Bank Details.
            Disability Details.
            Verification Details.
            Upload Documents.
Step9: Submit. For more information, please refer to: Guidelines: https://rajkisan.rajasthan.gov.in/Rajkisanweb/Kisan Registration: https://sso.rajasthan.gov.in/register Login: https://sso.rajasthan.gov.in/signin Tags associated with the scheme include: Agriculture, Farmer, Farming, Plastic Mulching.