The name of this welfare scheme is National AIDS Control Organisation (NACO) Internship Programme. It is also known as NACOIP. NACO initiated the Internship Programme in 2018 for young students who wish to engage with the Government. The internship programme envisages an opportunity for young students to get familiar with and understand the various dimensions of policy-making &amp;amp; implementation of the National AIDS Control Programme. It will serve as an exposure for the interns regarding the functioning of the Government of India. It will be mutually beneficial for the organization as well as students to have a structured internship programme under the aegis of NACO, Ministry of Health and Family Welfare. The internship programme would provide an excellent opportunity for budding scholars to familiarise themselves with the process of formulation of health policy and its implementation by the Government of India, with specific reference to the National HIV/AIDS and STD Control Programme.
&lt;br&gt;

The internship is offered on varied priority areas such as secondary data analysis of ICTC and PPTCT programme, MSM interventions, EID programme, primary research and data analysis on community perceptions of the HIV/AIDS Act, 2017 and Transgender Persons (Protection of Rights) Bill, 2018. The list of programmatic courses applicable for the internship at NACO is placed at Annexure II.
&lt;br&gt;

&amp;gt; Number of Interns

The number of interns can vary depending on the applications and requirements of NACO. However, at any point in time, the number of interns shall not be more than 10.
&amp;lt;br&amp;gt;

&amp;gt; Enrolment

Enrollment for internships shall be kept open throughout the year and offered based on the requirement of the different Programmes.
&amp;lt;br&amp;gt;

&amp;gt; Duration

The internship would be for a minimum duration of 6 weeks and max. duration of 3 months, as per the prerequisites of the study programme.
There shall be no bar for candidates to apply for a second internship with NACO. 
&amp;lt;br&amp;gt;

&amp;gt; Placement

The Interns will be placed in selected programme divisions within NACO or rotated through different divisions based on the prerequisites of the study programme.
NOTE: The internship programme is neither a job nor any such assurance for a job in the National AIDS Control Organisation or any other Ministry/ Department in the Government of India.
&lt;br&gt;

&gt; Reporting

Interns shall be expected to report to NACO, submit their joining report and work under close supervision of the concerned Head of Division (HOD). The areas available for internship at NACO are listed at Annexure III of the Scheme Guidelines.
&lt;br&gt;

&gt; Duties &amp;amp; Responsibilities

The interns are expected to follow the standard schedule of activities, observe the functioning of the divisions, participate in activities, conduct data analysis &amp;amp;amp; research, write reports, undertake field visits, and any other task assigned/entrusted to them by the HOD / Reporting Officer. The scheme targets beneficiaries such as Individual. The implementing agency is National AIDS Control Organisation (NACO). Additionally, the nodal ministry is Ministry Of Health & Family Welfare and the nodal department is Department of Health and Family Welfare.

The scheme provides the following benefits: > Remuneration

Interns will be entitled to a stipend at the rate of ₹ 8,000 per month payable on successful completion of the Internship and submission and acceptance of their Internship reports by the Reporting Officer, and satisfactory performance certified by the HoD. 
NOTE: Students who discontinue the internship would not be paid any remuneration by NACO.


> Certificate

Certificates will be issued on satisfactory completion of their internships and on submission and acceptance of the Reports. 
NOTE: Students who discontinue the internship would not be awarded any certificate by NACO.


> Boarding &amp; Lodging

No other expenses like travel costs etc. will be admissible and no claims would be entertained.


> Stay/Accommodation

Interns coming from outside Delhi / New Delhi have to make their own arrangements for stay/ accommodation at their own expense.


> Logistic Support

Interns will be provided with the necessary office logistics supports i.e. work space, stationery and facility for photocopying. 
NOTE: Interns will need to have their own laptop computers and internet connectivity.

Eligibility criteria include: The scheme is open to students pursuing undergraduate, postgraduate, M.Phil and PhD courses in various disciplines e.g. Preventive &amp; Social Medicine, Public Health, Health Management, Statistics, Social Sciences etc (the list is only illustrative and not exhaustive) pursuing graduation or postgraduation courses from a recognized and reputed University, who may apply for the internship programme. 


> Reservation / Preference / Priority

Preference will be given to applicants having an excellent academic track record and to research scholars, and candidates bringing project work relevant to NACO’s activities or concomitant with NACP. The application process is as follows: At NACO Headquarters, the applications in the prescribed format (AnnexureIV of the Scheme Guidelines) may be sent to the office of the Joint Secretary by registered/speed post or email communication, at the following address:
Deputy Secretary
National AIDS Control Organisation 
9th Floor, Chandralok Building,
36, Janpath, New Delhi – 110001
Email: naco.internship@gmail.com


NOTE 1: An advance copy of the application along with the Covering Letter and attachments may be sent by email to naco.internship@gmail.com. 
NOTE 1: The applications should reach at least one month before the commencement of the internship.


> Selection Process

Step 1: All applications will be scrutinized by an Internship Committee.
Step 2: The Internship Committee may conduct a personal interaction/ interview either through facetoface interview or electronic media (phone, skype, etc.) with the applicant.
Step 3: An intimation by email/ speed post will be sent to the selected candidates. 


> Queries/Grievances

Query, if any, may be addressed to Under Secretary at usadmin.dac@gmail.com. For more information, please refer to: Guidelines (English): https://naco.gov.in/sites/default/files/NacoInternship%20Programme.pdf Tags associated with the scheme include: AIDS, Health, Internship, NACO, Student.