The name of this welfare scheme is Scholarship Scheme For Disabled Students To Study Abroad For Higher Education. It is also known as SSDS. Scholarships are to be provided to twelve students every year by the Department of Social Justice proposed. So scholarship is provided to 2-2 orthopedically disabled students, 2-2 hearing impaired students and 2-2 visually impaired students of postgraduate level courses in specific fields abroad for a research degree (P. .HD) and to provide financial assistance to participate in research programs after the research degree. 
&lt;br&gt;

While, the students of the Department of Social Justice, who are benefited, will be able to obtain higher education abroad and get special academic achievements, on the other hand, other students of the Department of Social Justice will also be attracted by their achievements and move towards higher education. The scheme targets beneficiaries such as Individual. It is specifically implemented in Madhya Pradesh. Additionally, the nodal department is Social Welfare Department.

The scheme provides the following benefits: Scholarship for Higher Education in abroad

Eligibility criteria include: Applicants should be natives of Madhya Pradesh
Applicants should have 40% or more disability.
Applicant&#39;s age should not be more the 35 years. 
For studies after research degree First class or 60 % marks or its equivalent grade in the relevant postgraduate examination and research degree (PhD) with experience in the relevant field.
For Research Degree (PhD) First class or 60% marks in the relevant postgraduate examination or its equivalent grade and two years teaching/research/professional experience in the relevant field/M. Phil. degree.
For Post Graduate Degree First Class in Bachelor&#39;s Degree or 60% marks or its equivalent grade.
The applicant&#39;s name should be registered on the Sparsh portal.
The annual income of applicant&#39;s family should be up to Rs. 96,000/One Child per family will be eligible only at once. The application process is as follows: Applicants have to visit the official web site and download the application form.Fill out the application with the necessary information.
Attach the required documents. 
Application in the prescribed form will have to be submitted to the District Office of Social Justice and Disabled Welfare For more information, please refer to: Guidelines: https://socialjustice.mp.gov.in/uploads/schemes/Order__37.pdf