The name of this welfare scheme is Media Person Pension Scheme. It is also known as MPPS. The scheme “Media Person Pension Scheme” was launched by the Department of Information, Public Relations and Languages, Haryana on 7th December 2017. Under the scheme, the Government of Haryana is providing a monthly pension of ₹10,000/- to the accredited media persons of daily, evening, weekly, fortnightly, and monthly newspapers, news agencies, Radio stations, and news channels, above the age of 60 years.

  - The Administrative Secretary of Information, Public Relations &amp;amp; Languages Department, Haryana will be competent to accord sanction under this scheme.
  - The expenditure under this scheme will be borne by the Samvad Society. After sanction by the Administrative Secretary of this department, the amount of pension will be deposited in the bank account of the beneficiary media person by the Samvad Society. The scheme targets beneficiaries such as Individual. It is specifically implemented in Haryana. The implementing agency is Information, Public Relations And Languages Department, Haryana. Additionally, the nodal department is Information, Public Relations and Languages Department.

The scheme provides the following benefits: A monthly pension of ₹10,000/will be given to the eligible media persons.
Note: In case of the demise of the beneficiary media person, the monthly pension will continue to be given to his/her spouse (wife or husband, as the case may be), in case he/she is not getting any salary/wages/pension/any other regular financial assistance from any organization or the State Government.

Eligibility criteria include: The accredited media persons of daily, evening, weekly, fortnightly, and monthly newspapers, news agencies, Radio stations, and news channels with at least 20 years of experience in the field of journalism are eligible to apply under the scheme.
   The age of the applicant/media person should be above 60 years.
   The media person should have been accredited with the Information, Public Relations &amp;amp; Languages Department, Haryana for at least the last five years.
   The beneficiary media person will have to open an Aadhaarlinked savings bank account in any nationalized bank for depositing the amount of pension in their bank accounts.
   There should be no criminal proceedings pending against the beneficiary media person.
   The media person, getting a pension or honorarium of any kind from any other State Government or news organization will also be eligible. However, if an otherwise eligible media person is getting a pension from any other State Government of an amount less than ₹10,000/per month, the entitlement of pension under this scheme would be reduced by that amount.

Note 01: The beneficiary media person has to give a live certificate in the month of January every year.
Note 02: The pension under this scheme will be discontinued in case of registration of any criminal case against the beneficiary media person at any time or if the conduct of the media person is found against the set principles/ethics of journalism. The application process is as follows: Registration Process:
Step 01: The applicant should visit the Official Portal AntyodayaSARAL Portal
Step 02: Click on “New User/Register Here” and fill in all the mandatory details i.e. Name, Email ID, Mobile Number &amp;amp; password. Click on ‘Submit’.
Step 03: Applicants will receive the login ID on their mobile number.
Application Process:
Step 01: Visit the Official Portal AntyodayaSARAL Portal
Step 02: The “Sign in here” option is available on the right side of the screen. Applicant needs to fill in their credentials and click on the ‘Login’ button.
Step 03: In the opened window, scroll over the “Apply for Services” and then click the “View All Available Services” link.
Step 04: On the opened page, type media person in the search box and then click on the “Pension Application for Media Person” link to open the Haryana Media Person Pension Online Application Form.
Step 05: Fill in all the details asked in the online application form for a pension of media persons in Haryana.
Step 06: Finally, submit the application form and after successful verification, the media person starts availing of scheme benefits. For more information, please refer to: Notification: https://www.prharyana.gov.in/sites/default/files/documents/pension-scheme.pdf Official Website: https://www.prharyana.gov.in/en/media-persons-corner Tags associated with the scheme include: Honorarium, Journalism, Media Persons, Pension.