The name of this welfare scheme is Sathiyavanimuthu Ammaiyar Ninaivu Free Supply of Sewing Machine Scheme. It is also known as SANFSOSMS. The &#39;Sathiyavanimuthu Ammaiyar Ninaivu Free Supply of Sewing Machine Scheme&#39; is a state scheme launched by the Social Welfare and Women Empowerment Department, Government of Tamil Nadu. The scheme objective is to supply sewing machines free of cost to increase the self-employment potential for rehabilitation of destitute women/widows, deserted women, differently abled men and women, socially affected women and women from economically weaker sections. The scheme targets beneficiaries such as Individual. It is specifically implemented in Tamil Nadu. Additionally, the nodal department is Department of Social Welfare and Women Empowerment.

The scheme provides the following benefits: Sewing machines and accessories are provided at free of cost.

Eligibility criteria include: The applicant&#39;s annual income should not exceed ₹72,000/.
The age of the applicant should be between 20 to 40 years.
The applicant should have knowledge of tailoring.
The applicant should be ANY ONE of the following:


Destitute Woman.
Widow.
Deserted Woman.
Differently Abled Man.
Differently Abled Woman.
Socially Affected Woman.
Woman From Economically Weaker Sections. The application process is as follows: Step 1: The applicant should gather copies of the necessary documents needed to apply for the concerned scheme.
Step 2: The applicant should visit the nearest Common Service Center (CSC) and complete the Biometric Verification Process.
Step 3: In the application form, fill in all the mandatory fields and upload copies of all the mandatory documents.
Step 4: Request a receipt or acknowledgement from the concerned authority to whom the application has been submitted. Ensure that the receipt contains essential details such as the date and time of submission, and a unique identification number (if applicable). For more information, please refer to: Citizen's Charter: https://cms.tn.gov.in/sites/default/files/documents/swwe_e_cc_2022_23.pdf Tags associated with the scheme include: Destitute, Differently Abled, Employment, EWS, Widow.