The name of this welfare scheme is Observation Home and Special School. It is also known as OHSS. The scheme “Observation Home and Special School&quot; was launched by the Department of Social Welfare, Government of Puducherry. The objective of this scheme is to take care of the children who are juvenile delinquents by providing a Home to them where their basic needs are taken care of including general and vocational education and other facilities for enabling them to become useful citizens. The scheme targets beneficiaries such as Individual. It is specifically implemented in Puducherry. Additionally, the nodal department is Social Welfare Department, Puducherry.

The scheme provides the following benefits: Free Boarding and Lodging.
Recreations Like Library, Play Materials With Sufficient Playground Area (Indoor and Outdoor). 
Once a Year, Various Competitions Are Conducted in Sports, Games, Drawing, Singing, Essay Writing, Etc., the Winners Are Given Prizes During the Annual Day Celebration.
Educational Tours to Places of Interest Once in a Year.

NOTE: Contact the authorities below in case of delay in disbursal of benefits:

Puducherry: The Director, Directorate of Social Welfare, Saradhambal Nagar, Ellaipillaichavadhy, Puducherry. Karaikal: The Collector, Karaikal.Mahe/Yanam: The Regional Administrator, Mahe/Yanam.

Eligibility criteria include: The child should be under 18 years of age.
The child should be in conflict with the law. 
The child should have been admitted to the Juvenile Welfare Board. The application process is as follows: Step 1: The interested applicant should visit (during office hours) the Office/ SubOffice of the Department of Social Welfare, and request the hard copy of the prescribed format of the application form from the staff exclusively entrusted to issue and collect filledin applications.
Step 2: In the application form, fill in all the mandatory fields, paste the passportsized photograph (signed across, if required), and attach copies of all the mandatory documents (selfattest, if required).
Step 3: Submit the duly filled and signed application form along with the documents to the authority given below Puducherry: The Deputy Director, Differently Abled Section, Directorate of Social Welfare. Karaikal: The Assistant Director, Social Welfare Department (Sub Office).Mahe / Yanam: The Welfare Officer (i\c), Social Welfare Department (Sub Office). 
Step 4: Request a receipt or acknowledgement from the concerned authority to whom the application has been submitted. Ensure that the receipt contains essential details such as the date and time of submission, and a unique identification number (if applicable). For more information, please refer to: Guidelines: https://socwelfare.py.gov.in/observation-home-and-special-school-ariyankuppam-puducherry Citizen's Charter: https://socwelfare.py.gov.in/sites/default/files/citizen-charter.pdf Contact Us: https://socwelfare.py.gov.in/contact-us Sub Offices: https://socwelfare.py.gov.in/sub--office-social-welfare-department Grievance Redressal: https://pgportal.gov.in/ Tags associated with the scheme include: Children, School, Sports, Tour.