The name of this welfare scheme is Vasantrao Naik Merit Awards To The Vjnt Students Who Came First In State Or First In Board Of 10th And 12th Standard Examination. It is also known as Vnmatv. Vasantrao Naik Merit Awards to the VJNT students who came First in State or First in the Board of 10th and 12th Standard Examination Scheme Announced by the Government Of Maharashtra to Scheme to motivate VJNT students for Higher Education. The scheme targets beneficiaries such as Individual. It is specifically implemented in Maharashtra. Additionally, the nodal department is Social Justice and Special Assistance Department.

The scheme provides the following benefits: Award of ₹ 1,00,000 trophy and Certificate for one Boy and one Girl Student who came First in State in the Senior Secondary School (SSC) Exam.
Award of ₹ 51,000 trophy and Certificate for one Boy and one Girl Student who came First in each Board in the Senior Secondary School (SSC) Exam.
Award of ₹ 1,00,000 trophy and Certificate for one Boy and one Girl Student who came First in State in  Higher Secondary Schools (HSC) Exam.
Award of ₹ 51,000 trophy and Certificate for one Boy and one Girl Student who came First in each Board in the  Higher Secondary Schools (HSC) Exam.

Eligibility criteria include: The students should belong to the VJNT category.
The student should be First in State, or First in Board Examination of 10th or 12th.standard.
First Boy and First Girl Students who stood first in state and board both are eligible for Award. The application process is as follows: Step 1: Visit the official website
Step 2: Click on &quot;New Applicant Registration&quot;. Register using your Name, Mobile Number, and Email ID. Create a Username and Password. Your Mobile Number and Email ID will be verified via OTP.
Note: The username should contain only alphabets and numbers. The username should be greater than 4 characters and less than 15 characters.
Note: Password Length should be a minimum of 8 characters and a maximum of 20 characters. Password must contain at least 1 UpperCase Alphabet, 1 Lowercase Alphabet, 1 Number, and 1 Special Character.
Step 3: Now visit to Login Page and log in using your Username and Password.
You will be directed to Home Page[. ]()In the left pane, click &quot;Aadhaar Bank Link&quot; to link your Aadhaar with your Bank Account.
Step 4: In the left pane, click &quot;Profile&quot;. Fill in all the mandatory details and upload the mandatory documents (Personal Details, Address Information, Other Information, Qualifications). Click &quot;Save&quot;.
Step 5: In the left pane, click &quot;All Schemes&quot;. A list of schemes will appear. Click on &quot;Savitribai Phule Scholarship&quot;.
Step 6: Fill in all the additional information and upload the mandatory documents. Click &quot;Submit&quot; to submit your application. A popup will appear, displaying your Application ID. Save the Application ID for future reference. Click &quot;OK&quot;.
Optional: You can track the status of your application (Under Scrutiny / Approved / Rejected / Fund Disbursed) by clicking on &quot;My Applied Scheme History&quot; in the left pane. For more information, please refer to: Guidelines: https://sjsa.maharashtra.gov.in/en/scheme-category/education-training?&Submit=Submit&page=1 Tags associated with the scheme include: Board Exams, Higher Secondary School, Senior Secondary School, Vimukta Jati And Nomadic Tribes.