The name of this welfare scheme is Attendance Scholarship Scheme for Girl Students with Disabilities of Rural Areas. It is also known as ASSGSDRA. The scheme “Attendance Scholarship Scheme for Girl Students with Disabilities of Rural Areas” was launched by the Department of Social Security and Women &amp;amp; Child Development, Government of Punjab. The objective of this scheme is to uplift the status of the girls with disabilities in rural areas &amp;amp; also to make them reliant by paying incentives in the form of Attendance Scholarship to these girls. The scheme encourages the girl students with disabilities in rural areas to continue their studies and reduce dropouts. The scheme targets beneficiaries such as Individual. It is specifically implemented in Punjab. The implementing agency is Department Of Social Security And Women & Child Development, Government Of Punjab. Additionally, the nodal department is Department of Social Security and Development of Women and Children.

The scheme provides the following benefits: Rate of Scholarship:
₹2,500/per annum to the girl students up to 10th standard.
₹3,000/per annum to the girl students from 10+1 onwards upto higher education.
Note: The Directorate shall credit the scholarship online in the bank account of the student.

Eligibility criteria include: All rural girl students of Punjab having 40 % and above disability (In any disability contained in the schedule of RPwD Act 2016).
   The monthly income of the family/guardians of the girl student should not exceed ₹5,000/per month.
   The minimum attendance of the girl students should be 70%.
   The scholarship will be provided to the girl students from 1st Standard onwards up to higher education. The application process is as follows: > Mode of application:

Application for the scholarship is submitted to the Head of school/college/ institution who after verifying it shall forward it to the DSSO of the concerned district.
Whom to contact: Office of District Social Security Officer
Grievances Redressal:

District Social Security Officer
Head Office, Helpline (01722608746)

Email:
dsswcd@punjab.gov.in
dddwcd8@gmail.com For more information, please refer to: Guidelines: https://sswcd.punjab.gov.in/en/attendance-scholarship-scheme-for-girl-students-with-disabilities-of-rural-areas Official Website: https://sswcd.punjab.gov.in/en/wcd/state-schemes Tags associated with the scheme include: Attendance, Disability, Girl Student, PwD, Rural Area, Scholarship.