The name of this welfare scheme is Innovation In Science Pursuit For Inspired Research (INSPIRE) - Internship. It is also known as INSPIRE-I. INSPIRE INTERNSHIP aims to provide exposure to the top 1% of students at the Class X Board level by organizing Science Camps either during summer or winter which provides an opportunity for them to interact with Science icons from India and abroad, including Nobel Laureates, to experience the joys of scientific pursuit. These science camps nourish the curiosity of students in science, help them to think out-of-the-box, and attract students at an early age of 16-17 years to choose science subjects for further studies. Annually 50,000 students who are among the top one percent in their X Board Examination and pursuing science in standard XI would be benefited through summer/ winter camps. These camps would nourish the curiosity of children in science; help them to think out of the box and attract the students at an early age of 16-17 years (i.e. in XI standard) to pursue a research career. The scheme targets beneficiaries such as Individual. Additionally, the nodal ministry is Ministry Of Science And Technology and the nodal department is Department Of Science & Technology.

The scheme provides the following benefits: Duration of the Summer/Winter Camp: 5 days (excluding the days of Journey)
Nature of the Camp: Residential except in Metropolitan Cities
&lt;br&gt;

&gt; For the Interns:


   Each day the schedule of the Program should comprise at least two lectures cum discussion of one and a half hours in the morning hours followed by handson experience in the second half (i.e., 1400Hrs to 1730hrs). 
   The coordinator should engage students in the thinking process on issues of national importance by way of organizing sessions for interns for writing on new and innovative ideas. The following are some of the key areas of priority: Second Green Revolution; Renewable and non Renewable energy; Clean energy; Natural resources utilization for sustainability; Make in India; Swachh Bharat &amp;amp; Ganga Rejuvenation; Energy conservation efficiency and sustainability; Harnessing Modern Technology for the second green revolution; Dairy and Livestock Sector; Solid &amp;amp; Liquid Waste Management; Recycling &amp;amp; processing of waste to conserve resources.
   The program Coordinator can organize a predinner interactive session with the students on the first day and initiate discussions about the role of science and technology in the development of the nation. 
   A session with the participating interns on writing new and innovative ideas on the above areas. The organizer shall evaluate these ideas by the external mentors present during the 4th or 5th day and select the best three writeups in the raking of 1st 2nd 3rd ….. 10th. The interns whose writeups will be selected for 1st10th rank will be awarded during the valedictory function. 
   Each visiting Nobel Laureate has to interact with the Interns.
   Predinner Discussions of INSPIRE interns with Mentors may be arranged each day.
   Lab infrastructure in the area of Physics, Chemistry, Life Science, Earth Sciences Mathematical Sciences, etc., Auditorium with sound system, Guest House, Hostel accommodation for boys and girls.

&lt;br&gt;

&gt; For the Organizers/Mentors:


   For the INSPIRE Internship camp of 5 days (excluding the Journey days), ₹ 6500/student (as an uppermost ceiling/student) will be provided to the coordinating Institute/Department/agency to meet the INSPIRE Internship camp cost. 
   This cost includes travel costs (as per entitlement &amp;amp; actual), Boarding &amp;amp; Lodging, Stationary including Books &amp;amp; small experimental gadgets, etc., Consumables, Honorarium (to the Mentors, etc.), and organizational expenses for the Students and Indian Mentors invited for the respective INSPIRE Internship camps. 
   Honorarium to the mentors should be paid a maximum of ₹ 3000 per contributing day, with an upper limit of ₹ 6000 per mentor if the mentor contributes for more than one day in the entire camp duration. 
   For inviting a Noble Laureate to interact with the students in these Camps as an International Mentor, INSPIRE has also a provision of providing support with a maximum of ₹ 10,00,000 (allinclusive) per Noble Laureate. Every year a maximum 50 no. of Noble Laureates can be invited to the INSPIRE Internship Camps.

Eligibility criteria include: > For the Interns


The applicant should be a School Student.
The applicant should be in the top one percent ranking in their 10th Board Examination.
The applicant should be pursuing Science in Class 11th.
The applicant should not have attended a similar camp earlier.
The applicant should be within the same State or Union Territory.



Note: In case the number of top 1% students of a respective examination board is more than the allocated number of INSPIRE interns, for participation in such camps, of the respective state/UT, top rankers will be selected for INSPIRE Internship science camp provided they had applied for the same.


> For the Science Camp Organizers


University/College or Academic/Research institute should have the required infrastructure of related Science Laboratories for holding INSPIRE InternshipCamps.
Availability of auditorium with wellequipped sound system and LCD projectors.
Availability of Guest House, Hostel for Girls and Boys, with holding capacities.
University, College, or academic/Research institute shall owe the administrative and financial responsibility for the organization of INSPIRE Internship Camp.



For the Mentors

Mentors for INSPIRE Internship would be various Academy Fellows, Bhatnagar Awardees, Scientists, and academicians of National and International repute. The application process is as follows: > Submission of the Proposal


Any public or privately funded University or College Academic/ Research Institute fulfilling the above eligibility criteria and willing to organize INSPIRE internship camp can submit the online proposal on the www.onlineinspire.gov.in three months in advance from the proposed date of organization of the event for consideration of support. 
The proposal shall be having Endorsement Letter duly signed by the Head of the Institute and PFMS Unique Agency code and the Organizer shall also be a regular employee of the respective University or college or Academic/Research Institute. For more information, please refer to: Guidelines: https://www.online-inspire.gov.in/Account/OpenDocument?documentId=S%2FxI6DalIB0BupvJ5fXUyQ%3D%3D FAQs: https://online-inspire.gov.in/Content/InternshipFaq.pdf Intern's Feedback Form: https://www.online-inspire.gov.in/readwritedata/template/InternshipTemplate/Interns_Feedback_Form.pdf Tags associated with the scheme include: Camp, Internship, Science, Student.