The name of this welfare scheme is Divyang Boys/ Girls Marriage Incentive Grant. It is also known as DBGMIG. “Divyang Youth / Girl Marriage Incentive Grant” scheme is a social security scheme by the Social Welfare Department, Government of Uttarakhand. The scheme aims to provide financial assistance to a couple when a young woman or young man marries a Divyang (person with disability) partner. The scheme targets beneficiaries such as Individual. It is specifically implemented in Uttarakhand. Additionally, the nodal department is Department Of Social Welfare.

The scheme provides the following benefits: ₹25,000/to the beneficiaries.

Eligibility criteria include: &gt; For the Boys (Groom):


  The youth must be citizens of India.
  The youth must be permanent residents of Uttarakhand or have been domiciled there for at least five years.
  The youth himself or his partner should belong to the Person with Disabilities (PWD) category having at least 40% disability.
  The youth should not be convicted in a criminal case.
  The youth must be at least 21 years and not more than 45 years at the time of marriage.
  The youth should be married according to the prevailing social customs or a legal marriage has been solemnized by a competent court.
  The youth should not be an income tax payer.
  The youth should not have a preexisting wife.
  The youth should not be facing charges of molestation or any other criminal case.

&gt; For the Girls (Bride):


  The girl must be a citizen of India.
  The girl must be permanent residents of Uttarakhand or have been domiciled there for at least five years . 
  The girl herself or her partner should belong to the Person with Disabilities (PWD) category having at least 40% disability.
  The girl should not be convicted in a criminal case.
  The girl must be at least 18 years and not more than 45 years at the time of marriage.
  The girl should be married according to the prevailing social customs or a legal marriage has been solemnized by a competent court.
  The girl should not be an income tax payer.
  The youth should not have a preexisting husband. The application process is as follows: Step 1: Prescribed format can be collected from the nearest office of the Assistant Social Welfare Officer.
Step 2: Fill the form properly and attach all the documents (attested, if required).
Step 3: Submit the form to the nearest office of the Assistant Social Welfare Officer. For more information, please refer to: Guidelines (Page No. 18): https://agriculture.uk.gov.in/files/MERI_YOJANA_book_pdf__04-12-23.pdf Tags associated with the scheme include: Divyang Marriage, Marriage Grant.