The name of this welfare scheme is Mukhyamantri Nirman Shramikon Ke Bachon Hetu Nihshulk Coaching Sahaayata Yojana. It is also known as MNSKBHNCSY. The Labor Department of Chhattisgarh introduced the &quot;Mukhyamantri Nirman Shramikon Ke Bachon Hetu Nihshulk Coaching Sahaayata Yojana&quot; on March 1, 2023, through the &quot;Building and Construction Workers Welfare Board.&quot; Under this scheme, free coaching assistance will be provided to the children of registered workers. Only the first two children of the worker will be eligible for this scheme. The scheme targets beneficiaries such as Individual. It is specifically implemented in Chhattisgarh. The implementing agency is Building And Construction Workers Welfare Board. Additionally, the nodal department is Labour Department.

The scheme provides the following benefits: Free coaching assistance will be provided to the children of registered workers.



Note: Construction workers and their children registered under the Board are allowed to appear for competitive examinations as per educational qualification like PSC (Public Service Commission), CG VYAPAM (Chhattisgarh Professional Examination Board), SSC (Staff Selection Commission), IBPS (Banking), RAILWAY (Railway). ), There is a provision to provide free coaching through selected coaching institutes for POLICE ENTRANCE (Police Recruitment Examination).

Eligibility criteria include: The worker should be registered under The Building and Other Construction Workers Welfare Board.
The registered worker should have at least one year of regular membership.
The first two children of the worker are eligible for the scheme. The application process is as follows: Registration of a Construction Worker Under  CBOCWWB
Step1: All the applicant have to visit the official website Chhattisgarh Labour Department.
Step2: On the home page click on &quot;Apply&quot; under &quot;Chhattisgarh Building and Other Construction Workers Welfare Board&quot;.
Step3: Enter the following details


  Select : &quot;Building and Other Construction Workers Welfare Board&quot;
  Select Service : &quot;Labour Registration&quot;
  What do you want to do : &quot;Registration Application&quot;
  Click Proceed.


Step4: Now enter your details :Name


  Father name.
  Aadhar card.
  D.O.B.
  Age.


Step5:Click on submit only after uploading all the important information and documents given in Part 1, Part 2, Part Step6: When you click on submit, your registration ID will be sent to your mobile and email.
﻿
> Apply

Step1: All the applicant have to visit the official website Chhattisgarh Labour Department. 
Step2: On the home page click on &quot;Apply&quot; under &quot;Chhattisgarh Building and Other Construction Workers Welfare Board
Step3:  Enter the following details


  Select : &quot;Building and Other Construction Workers Welfare Board&quot;.
  Select Service : Scheme
  What do you want to do : &quot;Application&quot;.
  Click Proceed.


Step4: Select your district name and provide old/new registration number and click proceed.
Step5: When you enter the district and registration number, an OTP will be sent to your mobile for verification. 
Step6: After this, a dashboard will open in front of you, containing information about your name, address, age, and caste etc.
Step7: After that, you select your Yojana and upload your important documents and basic information.
Step8: Click &quot;Submit&quot; to register yourself for this scheme. For more information, please refer to: Guidelines S.no.13: https://cglabour.nic.in/schemes.aspx Registration: https://cglabour.nic.in/Public/ApplicationBOC_public.aspx Log In: https://cglabour.nic.in/userlogin.aspx Tags associated with the scheme include: Coaching, Construction Workers, Education, Labour.