The name of this welfare scheme is Stipend to Scheduled Caste Trainees in Technical Training Institutions. It is also known as SSCTTTI. The scheme “Stipend to Scheduled Caste Trainees in Technical Training Institutions” was implemented by the Adi Dravidar Welfare and Scheduled Tribes Welfare Department, Union Territory of Puducherry. The objective of the scheme is to provide financial support to Scheduled Tribe candidates/trainees who are undergoing training in the Government Technical Training Institutions of the Union Territory of Puducherry. The scheme targets beneficiaries such as Individual. It is specifically implemented in Puducherry. The implementing agency is Adi Dravidar Welfare And Scheduled Tribes Welfare Department, Union Territory Of Puducherry. Additionally, the nodal department is Adi Dravidar Welfare Department, Puducherry.

The scheme provides the following benefits: Under this scheme, a stipend is paid at the rate of ₹170/per month per trainee for the whole period of training.

Eligibility criteria include: The candidates/trainees who are undergoing training in the Government Technical Training Institutions of the Union Territory of Puducherry are eligible to apply under the scheme.
   The candidate should belong to the Scheduled Caste community.
   There is no income limit to apply under the scheme. The application process is as follows: Step 01: The students applying for the scholarship for the first time need to &amp;quot;Register&amp;quot; using the icon “New Registration” at the NSP Portal URL https://scholarships.gov.in/, by providing accurate and correct information as per their documents.
Step 02: After successfully get registration done, students will get their “Student Registration ID”.
Step 03: Through “Student Registration ID” students will be able to login into the account using the icon “Fresh Application” at NSP Portal.
Step 04: After successful login to the portal, the welcome page appeared. On clicking the “Application Form” icon, students will be directed to the application screen.
Step 05: Now, the students may fill out the complete application form and on clicking the “Final Submit” button, the application is finally submitted.
Step 06: On successful submission of the application, a systemgenerated registration number is sent to the students which can be used for future reference. For more information, please refer to: Official Website: https://adwelfare.py.gov.in/stipend-sc-trainees-technical-training-institutions Order: https://scholarships.gov.in/public/schemeGuidelines/Puducherry/Pudu_3021_G.pdf National Scholarship Portal: https://scholarships.gov.in/ Tags associated with the scheme include: ITI, Scheduled Caste, Stipend, Trainee.