The name of this welfare scheme is Mukyamantri Samuhik Vivah Evam Anudan Yojna . It is also known as MSVEAY. In an effort to tackle social issues and promote a more economical approach to weddings, the Rajasthani government introduced the Mukhyamantri Samuhik Vivah Evam Anudan Yojana in 2021. This initiative actively encourages mass marriage ceremonies throughout the state. By facilitating these events, the program aims to achieve a two-fold benefit: reducing excessive spending often associated with traditional weddings and discouraging harmful social practices like child marriage and dowry.  Financial aid is provided to couples to help manage the costs of their marriage.  This scheme effectively promotes social reforms while offering financial support for couples across Rajasthan. The scheme targets beneficiaries such as Individual. It is specifically implemented in Rajasthan. Additionally, the nodal department is Women and Child Development Department.

The scheme provides the following benefits: Total Grand : ₹25,000/will be provided as



   To the bride : ₹21,000/is given
   To Marriage Organizer : ₹4,000/through IFMS.

Eligibility criteria include: The bride/groom should be a native of Rajasthan
The bride&#39;s age should be above 18 years and the groom&#39;s age should be above 21 years.
Both bride and groom should be unmarried
Marriages should be registered as per rules. The application process is as follows: > Application for grant after marriage:

After the completion of the mass marriage event organized by the eligible institution, after getting the marriages registered, the information will be uploaded online by the institution for payment of the grant. The following documents will be attached to the application.

A certified list of the couples involved in the solemnized marriage;
Attested copies of marriage registration certificates;
Hard copies of the documents uploaded at the time of application will be submitted to the Women Empowerment Office of the concerned district.

> The presence of a competent officer or his representative and marriage registration officer at the time of marriage ceremony:

Competent officers will present themselves at the time of the marriage ceremony or can send their representative who will report on the prescribed form regarding the status of the marriage ceremony. The Tehsildar as a competent salt collector will give the block pass in the form. An Education Officer, Child Development Project Officer, or other blocklevel officer/supervisor (Women and Child Development Department) can be nominated. The presence of a marriage registration officer will also be ensured at the venue of the event. The organization itself will ensure that for the registration of marriages taking place in the said event, all the documents under the Rajasthan Compulsory Registration of Marriages Act, 2009 (Provision No. 16 of 2009) have been attached to the marriage registration application. After the marriage ceremony,  60 days will be given for marriage registration.


> Application check:


The proposals received for mass marriage will be examined based on documents by the authorized officer.
If after investigation there is any deficiency or objection in the application, the authorized officers will direct the applicant organization to fulfill the same and the objections will be compulsorily fulfilled 7 days before the mass marriage ceremony. 
If the application is found suitable as per the rules, the authorized officer will accept this recommendation. If the institution is eligible for a grant, the case will be presented to the competent authority for approval. For more information, please refer to: Guidelines: https://jankalyanfile.rajasthan.gov.in//Content/UploadFolder/Scheme/W_CD/samuhik/DOC_260_5f944a6b-9262-4a8f-93fb-c8a28f53f757.pdf Scheme Details: https://schemes.rajasthan.gov.in/scheme/detail/260 Tags associated with the scheme include: Dowry, Group Marriage, Marriage, Women.