The name of this welfare scheme is SERB International Research Experience. It is also known as SIRE. The Science and Engineering Research Board (SERB), a statutory body under the Department of Science and Technology, Government of India has launched &amp;quot;SERB International Research Experience (SIRE)&amp;quot;. This Program aims to impart high-end research training in frontier areas of Science and Technology, which are of interest to India by providing an opportunity to visit leading institutions/universities across the globe for a period of 02-06 months. The SERB under this program selects candidates in frontier areas of S &amp;amp; T and supports their visit to top institutions around the globe, preferably to the institutions where internationally acclaimed scientists are working.
&gt; Objectives:


  - To build national capacity in frontier areas of Science and Technology by providing opportunities for International R&amp;amp;D experience by SIRE fellows.
  - To tap the expertise gained by SIRE fellows to strengthen/initiate national programmes in their domain knowledge.
  - To encourage research activities in priority areas that are still less explored in the Indian context. The scheme targets beneficiaries such as Individual. The implementing agency is Science And Engineering Research Board, Government Of India. Additionally, the nodal ministry is Ministry Of Science And Technology and the nodal department is Department Of Science & Technology.

The scheme provides the following benefits: The selected fellows will be paid a monthly fellowship amount equivalent to US $ Onetime Contingency/Preparatory allowances of ₹75,000/to cover visa fees, airport transfer charges, insurance, etc.,
   Overseas Medical Insurance in India and abroad of ₹20,000/.
   The selected fellows will also be provided the shortest route economy class airfare from their place of work in India to the place of the host institute and back.

Note 01: The maximum duration of the abroad visit is limited to 06 months.
Note 02: For scientists/researchers in regular employment, rules governing payment of salary, leave, medical, gratuity, GPF pension, etc. of the organization/ institution/ university to which the fellow belongs would continue to be applicable as per their institutional norms. No liability on any of these will be borne by SERB.

Eligibility criteria include: The scheme is open to Indian nationals only.
   Applicant should have a Ph.D. degree in the area of Science and Engineering from recognized institutions in India.
   The applicant must hold a permanent position in any Indian research and academic institution.
   Applicants having MBBS/MD degrees and Veterinary doctors are also eligible to apply.
   Applicants having a Teachers Associateship for Research Excellence (TARE) award are also eligible to apply.
   Applicant must submit a letter of support from the overseas host institution along with the application.
   The age limit for applying under this scheme shall be 40 years (as of the date of submission of application). Age relaxation of 5 years will be given to applicants belonging to SC/ST/OBC/physically challenged and women categories. The application process is as follows: &gt; Application Procedure:

Step 01: The application for consideration can be submitted through the SERB online portal www.serbonline.in only when the call for proposal is made.
Step 02: Applicant should first register on the online website. Click here to register
Step 03: After successful registration, the user will be sent a confirmation mail on the registered email ID. Users must click on the URL provided in the mail to confirm registration.
Step 04: After login, the applicant(s) are required to fill all the mandatory fields in the Profile Detail section under User Profile, which includes Biodata, Photo, Institute Address, etc.
Step 05: Details like Qualification, Research Experience, Fellowships (if any), Employment, Patent (if any), Publications (if any), Projects (if any), and Research Collaborations (if any) have to be provided.
Step 06: Some of the details of your proposed work like Title (max 500 characters), Keywords (max 6), Expected output and outcome (max 1500 characters) and Tentative dates of visit, etc. have to be entered at the time of submission.
Step 07: The Research Plan has to be uploaded in a single PDF file not more than 10 MB.
Note 01: Applicant must submit the endorsement letter duly signed by the head of the organization/ institute where the applicant is employed.
Note 02: The candidate should also submit a letter of approval of the research plan from the host.
&gt; Selection:

The selection would be made among faculties who gained approval of the research plan from overseas institutions. The Board will constitute a selection committee to select the candidates.
Note: The candidates selected under this programme should commence their research in an overseas institution within one month from the date of the offer letter, and if not, the offer will be automatically withdrawn and no correspondence will be entertained thereafter. For more information, please refer to: Guidelines: https://serb.gov.in/page/research_networking#SERB%20International%20Research%20Experience%20(SIRE) SERB Website: https://www.serbonline.in/SERB/Sire Tags associated with the scheme include: Fellow, Fellowship, International Research, SERB, SIRE.