The name of this welfare scheme is Madhu Babu Pension Yojana. It is also known as MBPY. &amp;quot;Madhu Babu Pension Yojana&amp;quot; under the Social Security and Empowerment of Persons with Disabilities Department, Government Of Odisha is a social welfare scheme designed to provide financial assistance to elderly citizens, widows who are economically weaker. All the beneficiaries being covered under the &amp;quot;State Old Age Pension Scheme, 1989&amp;quot; and the &amp;quot;Orissa Disability Pension Scheme, 1985&amp;quot; in the State are covered under this scheme. The scheme is applicable to person with benchmark disability (irrespective of age) and unable to do normal work due to his/her deformity or any other disability notified under the Rights of Persons with Disability Act. The scheme targets beneficiaries such as Individual. It is specifically implemented in Odisha. Additionally, the nodal department is Women and Child Development Department.

The scheme provides the following benefits: For the beneficiary who is between 6079 years of age, the pension would be ₹ 500/per month.
   For the beneficiary who is 80 Years and Above in age, the pension would be ₹ 700/per month.
   The pension will be disbursed on the 15th of every month, on &amp;quot;JANA SEWA DlWAS&amp;quot; in the denomination of ₹ 100/.

Eligibility criteria include: The applicant is a permanent resident/domicile of Odisha since 20 years.
  The applicant should not been convicted of any criminal offence involving moral turpitude.


  The applicant should qualify for one of the following The age of the applicant is 60 years and above.
   The applicant is a widow.
   The applicant is a leprosy patient with visible signs of deformity.
   The applicant is a person of 5 years of age or, above and unable to do normal work due to his/her deformity or disability being blind or, orthopedically handicapped, mentally retarded, with cerebral palsy.
   The applicant is the widow of an AIDS patient.
   The applicant is an AIDS patient identified by the State / District AIDS Control Society (irrespective of income as under Rule 6 (b).


  The applicant is an unmarried woman belonging to BPL category.
  The applicant has family income from all sources not exceeding ₹ 24,000/per annum.
  The applicant is not in receipt of any other pension from the union Government or the state government or any organization aided by either Government. The application process is as follows: Visit the department official website to apply for the scheme.   Choose scheme tab, select scheme name &amp;quot;Madhu Babu Pension Yojana&amp;quot;. Click Procced.
   Online application form will open.   Upload documents including Income certificate, bank passbook copy.
   Submit the application form. &gt; Submission:


   The Application Form may be obtained from the Office of the Block Development Officer of the Block or, the Executive Officer, Municipality / NAC, Gram Panchayat Head Quarters free of cost.
   The duly filled application in the prescribed form in triplicate along with the required documents shall be submitted to the Block Development Officer in the rural areas or, to the Executive Officer of the N.A.C./ Municipality in the urban areas or, to the Officer disbursing the Pension at the disbursement place. 
   Obtain acknowledgment of receipt on the spot. 
   The application will be submitted to the Block Development Officer for entry in Register in FormMBPYIl (Gram Panchayatwise) maintained at the Block level in order of priority based on the date and time of receipt of application at either end.

&gt; Verification:


   On receipt of the application, the B.D.O. of the Block will get it entered in the Register in FormMBPYII through the Social Educational Organizer. 
   He shall then cause it to be enquired through the concerned Extension Officer of the Block who has been assigned with the concerned Gram Panchayat / Urban Body for supervision. In the case of urban areas, the assistance of the Executive Officer of the Municipality / N.A.C. may be taken by the Extension Officer for inquiry of the application.
   Each Extension Officer, on receipt of the application from the B.D.O. will enquire into the eligibility of the applicant, scrutinize the documents enclosed thoroughly with personal contact with the certifying officer and record his findings on the body of the application in the appropriate place and forward the same to the B.D.O. within a period of 15 days.
   After the applications are received from the Extension Officer, the Block Development Officer shall personally scrutinize the applications and recommend them to the SubCollector within a period of 15 days in order of priority for sanction.
   The SubCollector shall maintain the Register in form MBPYIII in order of priority of the applications as indicated by the B.D.O. Gram Panchayatwise / Blockwise / N.A.C.wise / Municipalitywise.

&gt; Sanction:


   The SubCollector, on receipt of the application, shall get them examined not exceeding a period of fifteen days. He may either sanction payment of a pension or, reject the applications with a clear mention of reasons for rejection or, seek clarification on any of the points in doubt. The SubDivisional Social Welfare Officer shall assist the SubCollector in the timely disposal of the applications and maintenance of the Register in FormMBPYIII.
   Applications sanctioned/rejected/clarification sought by the SubCollector shall be returned to the Block Development Officer concerned who in turn shall clarify the queries of the SubCollector and resubmit for sanction/rejection within seven days.
   The Block Development Officer shall send a copy of the sanction order with the Photo Identity Card in form (MBPYV) or, the rejection order to the applicant within a week of the receipt of such order Under Certificate of Posting under intimation to the Executive officer concerned where necessary. 

&gt; Payment:


   Payment of pension in full shall commence from the first of the month following the month of sanction as per their priority in the Register. in form MBPYII subject to the accrual of vacant slots due to the death of a pensioner or otherwise or, the increase in targeted no. of beneficiaries in respect of that particular Gram Panchayat / Urban Local Body. For more information, please refer to: Guidelines: https://ssepd.odisha.gov.in/sites/default/files/2024-01/GUIDELINE%20ON%20MADHU%20BABU%20PENSION%20YOJANA%20%28MBPY%29.pdf Tags associated with the scheme include: Disability, Pension, Social Security, Widow.