The name of this welfare scheme is Junior Research Fellowship In Engineering & Technology. It is also known as JRFST. INTRODUCTION 
The scheme &quot;Junior Research Fellowship in Engineering &amp; Technology&quot; by the University Grants Commission (UGC), Department of Higher Education is meant for candidates who wish to pursue research leading to a Ph.D. degree in engineering and technology. As of date, the University Grants Commission (UGC) or the Council of Scientific and Industrial Research (CSIR) are not conducting National Education Testing (NET) examinations in these fields. Therefore, M.Pharma and M.E., M.Tech. students are given this opportunity, through direct interviews conducted by the Commission. There are 50 slots under this scheme per year.


OBJECTIVES 
The objective of this scheme is to provide an opportunity to research scholars to undertake advanced study and research in engineering and technology, and agricultural engineering, leading to Ph.D. Subjects like geology and geo-physics are not considered under this scheme. The scheme targets beneficiaries such as Individual. The implementing agency is University Grants Commission (UGC). Additionally, the nodal ministry is Ministry of Education and the nodal department is Department Of Higher Education.

It falls under the categories: Education & Learning, Science, IT & Communications.

Eligibility criteria include: All Minimum qualifications are a master&#39;s degree in engineering/technology/pharmacy, with 55 percent marks. 
GATE is not a mandatory condition for getting a research fellowship to pursue Ph.D. 
Candidates need to hold an M.E./M.Tech. degree.
The age limit is 40 years as on 1 July of the year of the award, extendable by five years for women and SC/ST candidates. 
A total of 5 percent of the fellowships are reserved for candidates belonging to SC/ST who fulfill the requisite qualifications laid down for the award. In case of the nonavailability of SC/ST candidates, these slots will be made available to general candidates. For more information, please refer to: Guidelines: https://www.ugc.ac.in/oldpdf/xiplanpdf/JRFE-T.pdf Tags associated with the scheme include: Fellowship, Science.