The name of this welfare scheme is Mukhyamantri Kanyadaan Yojana. It is also known as MKY. Mukhyamantri Kanyadaan Yojna is a scheme launched by the Rajasthan Government to promote the marriage of girls from economically weaker sections of society. Under this scheme, the government provides financial assistance to eligible families for the marriage of their daughters.
The scheme aims to empower girls and their families by providing financial support for their marriage and ensuring that they do not face any financial burden. The scheme provides an assistance amount of ₹40,000 to the eligible families to cover the expenses related to the marriage, including jewelry, clothes, and other related expenses.
To be eligible for the scheme, the bride&#39;s family must be a resident of Rajasthan, and the bride should be 18 years of age or older. The family&#39;s annual income should be less than ₹ 2.5 lakh, and they should not have any other source of income. The bride should also have completed her 10th-standard education.
Overall, Mukhyamantri Kanyadaan Yojna aims to promote the welfare of girls from economically weaker sections of society and ensure that they are not deprived of their right to marry due to financial constraints. The scheme targets beneficiaries such as Family. It is specifically implemented in Rajasthan. Additionally, the nodal department is Social Justice and Empowerment Department.

The scheme provides the following benefits: The implementation of this scheme will be reviewed at the district level and a committee meeting will be held every 3 months.
The state government will provide financial assistance of ₹ 31,000 to ₹ 41,000 to the eligible beneficiaries at the time of the girl&#39;s marriage.
Under this scheme, a provision of savings of about ₹24 crore has been approved.
If the girls of the state pass 10th then the government will provide an amount of ₹41 thousand at the time of their marriage.
If the girls of the state pass 12th then the government will provide an amount of ₹51 thousand at the time of their marriage.

Eligibility criteria include: This scheme is specifically for Divyang and Women that belong to following :

BPL family belonging to the Scheduled Tribe category
Minority category BPL families
Specially Qualified Individuals (Not Income Tax Payers)
A female player (if selfmarried) who fulfills the prescribed criteria as per the circulars issued by the Personnel Department. Self or parents are not income taxpayers.
Beneficiary in Palanhar Yojana. The application process is as follows: > Registration

Step1: Applicant have to visit the official portal. 
Step2: Click on the option “Register”.
Step3: Then you will be redirected to the SSO registration page. The registration page will appear with the following options.


  Citizen


Step4: Choose the either one option from  the Jan Aadhaar Or Google to process further.


  Jan Aadhaar : Enter the Jan Aadhaar number, click on the ‘Next’ button,


      Select your name, the name of the head of the family and all the other members and 
      Click on the ‘Send OTP’ button. Enter the ‘OTP’ and 
      Click on the ‘Verify OTP’ button to Complete the registration. 






  Google : Enter the Gmail ID, click on the ‘Next’ button, 


      Enter the password.
      A new link appear on screen, now click on new SSO link.
      SSO id will appear on screen, now create the password.
      Enter Mobile number, click on registration.




 
> Apply 

Step1: Applicant have to visit the official portal. 
Step2: After login, dashboard will open.
Step3: Click on “IFMSRAJSSP” option. 
Step4: In &quot;IFMSRAJSSP&quot;, click on &quot;Application Entry Request&quot;.
Step5: Enter the &quot;Bhamashah Family ID&quot; and search.  
Step6: Select the person name and scheme name. 
Step7: Complete the Aadhaar Authentication and click on get details. 
Step8: Provide the required details.
            Pensioner Details.
            Bank Details.
            Disability Details.
            Verification Details.
            Upload Documents.
Step9: Submit. For more information, please refer to: Guidelines: https://jankalyanfile.rajasthan.gov.in//Content/UploadFolder/Scheme/SJED/kanyadan/DOC_128_9153b445-1c0e-45ea-8e46-b1bc5a5a8d06.pdf Scheme Details: https://schemes.rajasthan.gov.in/scheme/detail/128 Registration: https://sso.rajasthan.gov.in/register Tags associated with the scheme include: DBT Scheme, Female Scheme, Girls Scheme Rajasthan, Kanyadaan Yojana, Social Welfare.