The name of this welfare scheme is Integrated Child Development Services: Chandigarh. It is also known as ICDS: CHANDIGARH. Launched on 2nd October, 1975, the Integrated Child Development Services (ICDS) Scheme is one of the flagship programmes of the Government of India and represents one of the world’s largest and unique programmes for early childhood care and development. It is the foremost symbol of country’s commitment to its children and nursing mothers, as a response to the challenge of providing pre-school non-formal education on one hand and breaking the vicious cycle of malnutrition, morbidity, reduced learning capacity and mortality on the other. The beneficiaries under the Scheme are children in the age group of 0-6 years, pregnant women, and lactating mothers. 


To reduce mortality morbidity and malnutrition among the children in U.T of Chandigarh, the ICDS project was started on 1.8.1979 with 24 anganwadi centres. At present there are 3 ICDS Projects comprising of 450 anganwadi centres covering an approx. population of over 5.50 lac in peripheral areas, villages, colonies, and slum areas. The scheme targets beneficiaries such as Individual. It is specifically implemented in Chandigarh. Additionally, the nodal department is Health Department.

The scheme provides the following benefits: Supplementary Nutrition
Immunization
Health Checkup
Referral Services
PreSchool Education
Nutrition &amp; Health Education



Three of the six services viz. immunization, health checkup and referral services are related to health and are provided through National Health Mission and Public Health Infrastructure. The services are offered at Anganwadi Centers through Anganwadi Workers (AWWs) and Anganwadi Helpers (AWHS) at grassroots level.

Eligibility criteria include: Children in the age group of 06 years.
Pregnant women.
Lactating mothers.
Women from age group 1418 years of UT Chandigarh.
The Scheme is universal for all categories of beneficiaries and in coverage. The application process is as follows: The citizen need not apply to the scheme. Visit the nearest Anganwadi center. For more information, please refer to: Portal: https://chdsw.gov.in/index.php/scheme/ICDS Tags associated with the scheme include: Child Development, Child Development Scheme, ICDS, Immunization Of Children, Lactating Mothers.