The name of this welfare scheme is DEVELOPMENT OF HANDICRAFTS. It is also known as DOH. The government of Puducherry takes the initiative to revive the vanishing crafts and restore the significance of traditional crafts.
Objective:  
(i) To promote and develop the Handicrafts in the Union Territory of Puducherry.  
(ii) To revive the vanishing crafts and to restore the traditional Handicrafts /trades under the Viswakarma category.  
(iii)  To develop the skills in order to create better employment opportunities and to boost the livelihood of rural poor, who have contributed a significant share to exports by the U.T. of Puducherry. 


> Training  

Objective: 
 (i) To revive the vanishing crafts and to restore the traditional Handicrafts.  
(ii) To develop the skills in order to create better employment opportunities and to boost the livelihood of rural poor, who have contributed a significant share to exports by the U.T. of Puducherry. The scheme targets beneficiaries such as Individual. It is specifically implemented in Puducherry. Additionally, the nodal department is District Industries Centre Organization.

The scheme provides the following benefits: > To revive the vanishing crafts and to restore the traditional Handicrafts.



> Financial Assistance:




To the trainee –

(i) Stipend: Rs. 1,500 /per month/ per trainee.

To the trainer –

(i) Honorarium Rs. 300/per month/ per trainee (maximum Rs.3, 000/per month).
(ii) Compensation for wastage of raw materials Rs.150 /per month/ per trainee (maximum Rs.1,500/per month).


Note:Period of Training: 6 months

Eligibility criteria include: Residence Should be the native of Puducherry Union Territory (or)Should be a continuous resident for the past three years.
Proof: Birth Certificate / Education Certificate/Residence Certificate.
Already trained candidates are not eligible to apply. The application process is as follows: The District Industries Centre shall release an advertisement in local daily newspapers thereby inviting applications from eligible applicants.
Step 1: Application will be called through wide publicity every year. Applicant should apply in the prescribed form to this office directly addressed to the General Manager, District Industries Centre, Pondicherry Any application received through any organization or association will not be accepted. 
Step 2: Request a hard copy of the proforma from the concerned authority.
Step 3: Applications should be duly supported by the following documents.

A certificate from the District Collector/ Dy. Commissioner certifies the financial position of the applicant including a certificate that the applicant is not in receipt of financial assistance from any other source. 
Age certificate from the appropriate authority. 

OR 

  Required certificates in respect of income and age mentioned above can also be furnished by the craftsperson himself/ herself in the form of an affidavit declared before a First class Magistrate.

Step 4: Submit the duly filled and signed application form along with the documents to the General Manager, District Industries Centre, Pondicherry. 




> Contact officer: The Technical Officer, Yanam. For more information, please refer to: Guidelines: https://yanam.gov.in/scheme/developments-of-handicrafts/ Source: https://cdn.s3waas.gov.in/s3ddb30680a691d157187ee1cf9e896d03/uploads/2021/07/2021073077.pdf Tags associated with the scheme include: Handicraft, Puducherry, Skills, Trades, Training.