The name of this welfare scheme is Subsidy for the Purchase of Wooden/Fiber Reinforced Plastic/Steel Mechanised Boats. It is also known as SPWFRPSMB-FAASCDMF. The scheme &quot;Subsidy for the Purchase of Wooden/Fiber Reinforced Plastic/Steel Mechanised Boats&quot; is a Sub-Component under the Umbrella Scheme &quot;Financial Assistance for Availing Subsidy Components for the Development of Marine Fisheries&quot; by the Department of Fisheries and Fishermen Welfare, Government of Puducherry. The scheme is introduced with the objective of increasing marine fish production by extending subsidies for the procurement of wooden/fiber-reinforced plastic/steel mechanized boats. The scheme targets beneficiaries such as Individual. It is specifically implemented in Puducherry. Additionally, the nodal department is Fisheries and Fishermen Welfare Department, Puducherry.

The scheme provides the following benefits: 50% subsidy subject to a maximum of ₹7,50,000 for a mechanized boat of overall length above 47 feet with nets linked with bank finance for the purchase of a new fishing vessel.
50% subsidy subject to a maximum of ₹11,00,000 for a steel mechanized boat of overall length 45 to 54 feet with nets, linked with bank finance for the purchase of a new fishing vessel.
50% subsidy to a maximum of ₹2,50,000 per boat for conversion/modernization of an existing mechanized fishing boat (unit cost ₹5,00,000).
50% subsidy to a maximum of ₹5,00,000 for the modernization of an existing mechanized fishing boat with a size of 43 feet and above for tuna long lining (unit cost ₹10,00,000).

The rate of subsidy may be fixed by the Government from time to time.

Eligibility criteria include: The applicant should either belong to the fishermen community or be one of those professionally engaged in fishing/fish trade occupation on a fulltime basis/prospective entrepreneurs.
The applicant must have resided in the Union territory of Puducherry for a continuous period of not less than five years at the time of applying for extending subsidies/ grants. 
The applicant must have been enrolled as a member of the Fishermen Cooperative Society and be above the age of 23 years and below 60 years.
The applicant must not have been a recipient of Old Age Pension, issued by the department. 
The applicant should not be employed in Government/ Government Undertakings/Fishermen Cooperative Society. 
The applicant must not have any dues to be paid to the Department/Fishermen Cooperative Societies at the time of making the application. 
In the case of male applicants, they should possess sea fishing experience in any mechanized boat for a minimum period of 5 years.
In the case of women applicants, they should possess sufficient fishing trade experience. 
In the case of entrepreneurs, they should possess fishing trade experience. The application process is as follows: Step 1: The interested applicant should visit the Office/ SubOffice of the Department of Fisheries and Fishermen Welfare.
Step 1: The interested applicant should request the hard copy of the prescribed format of the application form from the concerned authority.
Step 2: In the application form, fill in all the mandatory fields, paste the passportsized photograph (signed across, if required), and attach copies of all the mandatory documents (selfattest, if required).
Step 3: Submit the duly filled and signed application form along with the documents to the concerned authority.
Step 4: Request a receipt or acknowledgment from the concerned authority to whom the application has been submitted. Ensure that the receipt contains essential details such as the date and time of submission, and a unique identification number (if applicable). For more information, please refer to: Guidelines: https://fisheries.py.gov.in/sites/default/files/reimbursement20of20hsd20notification.pdf Application Form: https://fisheries.py.gov.in/sites/default/files/subsidies-application007.pdf List Of Sub-Offices: https://fisheries.py.gov.in/sub-offices Contact Us: https://fisheries.py.gov.in/contact-us Tags associated with the scheme include: Boat, Financial Assistance, Fisheries, Fisherman, Subsidy.