The name of this welfare scheme is Krushy Aranya Protsaha Yojane (kapy). It is also known as Kapy. The Karnataka Forest Department launched the &#39;Krushi Aranya Protsaha Yojane (KAPY)&#39; program in 2011-12 to encourage farmers and the general public to increase forest and tree cover. The program provides subsidized seedlings to farmers for planting on their lands. Farmers are paid an incentive of Rs 35 for every surviving seedling at the end of the first year, Rs 40 after the completion of the second year, and Rs 50 after the completion of the third year. This is done to encourage the farmers to nurture the seedlings for at least three years.


The amount of money provided as an incentive (Rs 125/- per seedling) more than compensates the cost incurred by the farmer in procuring and planting the seedling. The incentive is quite substantial when the farmer plants more seedlings. In addition to the financial incentive, the farmers are entitled to get handsome returns from the grown-up trees in the form of fruits, seeds, fodder, firewood, pole, timber, and other useful products. It is specifically implemented in Karnataka. Additionally, the nodal department is Forest Department.

It falls under the categories: Agriculture,Rural & Environment.

Eligibility criteria include: This scheme is open to farmers belonging to all communities.
Applicant must have Pahani of the land where planting is being proposed.
Registration should be done before the commencement of the rainy season (by the end of May).
The following species of trees are not eligible for payment of incentive amountEucalyptus, Acacia, Silver Oak (if planted in coffee estate), Casuarina, Cassia siamea (Seemetangadi), Gliricidia, Sesbania, Erythrina, Rubber, Subabul, Coconut, Arecanut, Orange, all types of citrus species and grafted mango.
The following documents are required while applying for this scheme Copy of Aadhaar Card, Passportsized photograph of the applicant, Pahani of the land where planting is being proposed, Handsketch of the land, Details of seedlings (species, number of seedlings, size of polybags, etc.), Details of the applicant&#39;s bank account. For more information, please refer to: Individual Scheme Details: https://aranya.gov.in/aranyacms/(S(ioxcli2kh1oqsf1rpfhsomas))/English/IndividualScheme.aspx?HkxuiBwcRAlH/nwkzKruPQ== Karnataka RTC - Online Land Record Services: https://rtc.karnataka.gov.in/Service78/ Tags associated with the scheme include: Farmers, Pahani, Subsidy, Three-year Nurturing, Tree Plantation.