The name of this welfare scheme is Shram Kalyan Shaikshanik Chatravriti Yojana. It is also known as SKSCY. The main objective of the Madhya Pradesh Shram Kalyan Academic Scholarship Scheme is to provide scholarships to the children of labourers to get an education. Through this scheme, scholarships will be provided from the 5th class to a higher level of education. Now the students of the state will not have to face a financial crunch for getting an education. Because the education expenses of the students of the state will be borne by the Madhya Pradesh government. 
This scheme will also prove effective in reducing the unemployment rate of the state. Apart from this, through this scheme, help will also be received in reaching the basic right of education for all children. Now the students of the state will not need to depend on anyone for the expenses of their education because the Madhya Pradesh government will provide scholarships to them through the Madhya Pradesh Shram Kalyan Academic Scholarship Scheme. The scheme targets beneficiaries such as Individual. It is specifically implemented in Madhya Pradesh. Additionally, the nodal department is Labour Department.

The scheme provides the following benefits: The scholarship is provided to the students studying From the class 5th to 12th, Graduation, Post Graduation, ITI, Polytechnic, PGDCA, DCA (Computer Course), B.E., M.B.B.S.

Eligibility criteria include: The applicant must be a permanent resident of Madhya Pradesh.
The parents of the applicant should be employed in a factory or institution established in Madhya Pradesh under the Labor Welfare Fund Act, Only 2 children of a family are eligible to get the benefits of this scheme.
Children of officers and employees working in institutions with managerial capacity are not eligible to get the benefit of this scheme. The application process is as follows: Applicants have to visit the official scholarship portal of the Student Labor Welfare Board.Fill out the entries of the academic scholarship application form online.
The applicant will have to authenticate his identity by giving his own and his mother&#39;s / father&#39;s Aadhaar numbers. 
Online applications for academic scholarships will have to be made within the time limit. Applications received after the prescribed period will not be considered by the Board and no action will be taken.
Upload the required documents.
Submit. For more information, please refer to: Guidelines: http://scholarshipportal.mp.nic.in/ShramKalyan/Pages/about.aspx Tags associated with the scheme include: Financial Assistance, Higher Education, Student Finance.