The name of this welfare scheme is Nehru Child Literature Prize. It is also known as NCLP. The Arts and Culture Department of Puducherry launched the &quot;Nehru Child Literature Prize&quot; scheme. The scheme aims to provide financial assistance of ₹10,000/- with a certificate to writers/authors for the books published in Tamil on Children’s Literature. The applications will be accepted offline. The scheme targets beneficiaries such as Individual. It is specifically implemented in Puducherry. Additionally, the nodal department is Arts and Culture Department, Puducherry.

The scheme provides the following benefits: Financial Assistance of ₹10,000/. with a certificate.

Eligibility criteria include: The applicant should be a writer/author/ joint author.
The applicant should be a native of Puducherry by virtue of birth or continuous residence of not less than five years.
The applicant should submit texts that must be printed and published as first edition by 31st December from the first day of the specified year.
A onetime awardee is ineligible to apply for the subsequent four years.
The applicant should not submit an abridgment, adaptation, translation, or paraphrase of another text for the competition. 
Essay and thesis submitted for a university degree or examination are not eligible for this award.
The texts written for the syllabus will not be accepted for the prize competition.
The Children&#39;s literature should be published in Tamil not exceeding 120 pages.
Foundation lectures, other lectures, serials in journals Published, etc. will not be accepted.
The applicant should include categories such as novels, short stories, poems, plays, travelogues, collections of essays, etc. written for children&#39;s literature. The application process is as follows: Step 1: The interested applicant should visit (during office hours) the Department of Art and Culture and request the hard copy of the prescribed format of the application form from the staff exclusively entrusted to issue and collect filledin applications.
OR
The interested applicant downloads the application form.
Step 2: In the application form, fill in all the mandatory fields, paste the passportsized photograph (signed across, if required), and attach copies of all the mandatory documents (selfattest, if required).
Step 3: Submit the duly filled and signed application form along with the documents to the superintendent, Department of Art and Culture, No.1, Roman Roland Road, Puducherry 605 Step 4: Request a receipt or acknowledgment from the superintendent to whom the application has been submitted. Ensure that the receipt contains essential details such as the date and time of submission, and a unique identification number (if applicable).


NOTE 1: Five texts received for the competition cannot be returned for any reason. 
NOTE 2: Only application forms sent with the author&#39;s signature will be accepted for the competition.
NOTE 3: If a book is the joint effort of several authors, the prize money will be distributed among the joint authors. For more information, please refer to: Citizens Charter: https://art.py.gov.in//sites/default/files/ecit1.pdf Official Website: https://art.py.gov.in/ Application Form: https://art.py.gov.in/sites/default/files/nehru-2300.pdf Tags associated with the scheme include: Author, Books, Financial Assistance, Publication.