The name of this welfare scheme is Financial Assistance To Non-School Going Disabled Children Scheme. It is also known as FANSGDCS. The scheme “Financial Assistance To Non-School Going Disabled Children Scheme” was launched by the Department of Social Justice and Empowerment, Government of Haryana during the years 2008-09. Under this scheme, financial assistance is provided to the mentally retarded and multiple disabled children who are in the age group of 0-18 years and not able to attend formal education, training, etc. due to their disability. They are totally depending on their parents and relatives and need constant supervision and care from their families. Financial Assistance shall be admissible under the scheme @ ₹2150/- p.m. w.e.f. April 2023 to every such disabled child in the family of the applicant. The scheme targets beneficiaries such as Individual. It is specifically implemented in Haryana. The implementing agency is Department Of Social Justice And Empowerment, Government Of Haryana. Additionally, the nodal department is Social Justice and Empowerment Department.

The scheme provides the following benefits: The financial assistance of ₹2150/will be given by the state government to every disabled child in the family of the applicant.
   Every nonschoolgoing disabled child in a single family would be eligible for assistance.

Note: After attaining the age of 18 years, the beneficiary should automatically become eligible for a handicapped pension.

Eligibility criteria include: A person having a physical disability in the age group between 018 years.
Child is not able to attend formal education, training, etc. due to this disability.
Domicile of Haryana state and should be residing in Haryana State for the last three years at the time of submission of application.
Medical Certificate issued by the Civil Surgeon having the following disabilities:•	Mental Retardation with I.Q. not exceeding 50 or a percentage of disability is 70% and above.
•	Persons with cerebral palsy.
•	Persons with Autism.
•	Multiple disabilities with a total permanent disability of 70% or more disabilities as defined in clause (i) of Section 2 of the Persons with Disabilities, Protection of Rights and Full Participation) Act, 1995 (1 of 1996).
•	Case of orthopedic disability with permanent disability of 100% which are further clarified as under:a.	Myhopathy
    b.	Paraplegic
    c.	Quadri Plegia
The applicant’s close relatives and parents are not in a financial position to support him/her and the income of his/her parents, close relatives or his/her own income from all sources is less than the income as prescribed under the Minimum Wages. He/She will have to submit proof of income verified by the competent authority. The application process is as follows: Step 01: The applicant needs to visit the office of the Social Welfare Department (DSWO) in his/her Block/District and collect the application form. The application form can also be downloaded from the Official Website of the Department.
Step 02: The applicant should fill out the application form and attach all the essential documents.
Step 03: After filling out the application form, the applicant needs to get attested to the form from the concerned authority as mentioned in the application form.
Step 04: Then the application form should be submitted to the office of the Social Welfare Department (DSWO) of your Block/District. Step 01: The applicant should visit the Official Portal AntyodayaSARAL Portal
Step 02: Now if the applicant is already registered on the portal, then he/she can login to the portal using their credentials, and if not registered, then he/she may get registered on the portal by filling in their details.
Step 03: Click on “Check Your Eligibility” and enters your details.
Step 04: Now, select the department name i.e. Social Justice And Empowerment, Or search by scheme name
Step 05: Click on “Apply for Service/Scheme”
Step 06: Fill all the mandatory details in the form and submit the application form. For more information, please refer to: Notification: https://cdnbbsr.s3waas.gov.in/s392bbd31f8e0e43a7da8a6295b251725f/uploads/2021/07/2021072323.pdf Official Website: https://socialjusticehry.gov.in/financial-assistance-to-non-school-going-disabled-children/ Application Form: https://cdnbbsr.s3waas.gov.in/s392bbd31f8e0e43a7da8a6295b251725f/uploads/2021/03/2021032556.pdf Tags associated with the scheme include: Disability, Disabled Children, Financial Assistance, Mentally Retarded, School.