The name of this welfare scheme is Scheme for Giving Financial Assistance to the Legal Heirs of the Deceased Artist (Wife/Husband) on the Death of the Indigent Artist Who Was Receiving Financial Assistance. It is also known as SFGFATTLHOTDAWHOTDOTIAWWRFS. The &quot;Scheme for Giving Financial Assistance to the Legal Heirs of the Deceased Artist (Wife/Husband) on the Death of the Indigent Artist who was Receiving Financial Assistance&quot; was launched by the Art and Culture Department, Government of Tamil Nadu. Through this scheme, financial assistance of ₹3,000/- is given to the eligible legal heir (wife/husband) of the deceased artist. The scheme targets beneficiaries such as Family. It is specifically implemented in Tamil Nadu. Additionally, the nodal department is Art and Culture Department.

The scheme provides the following benefits: Financial Assistance of ₹3,000/per month.

Eligibility criteria include: The applicant should be the legal heir (wife/husband) of the deceased.
The deceased should have been an artist.
The deceased should have been receiving financial assistance through the scheme &quot; Scheme of Financial Assistance to Indigent Artistes&quot; by the Art and Culture Department, Government of Tamil Nadu.
The deceased should have been 58 years or older.
The benefit of the scheme will be given only on the death of the indigent artist. 
The deceased should have professionally served for the enrichment of any one of the art disciplines or more such as music, dance, drama, film, folk arts, etc.
The annual income of the deceased artist or their legal spouse should not have exceeded ₹12,000/. The application process is as follows: Step 1: The interested applicant should visit (during office hours) the office of the Commissioner of Art and Culture and request the hard copy of the prescribed format of the application form from the staff exclusively entrusted to issue and collect filledin applications.
Step 2: In the application form, fill in all the mandatory fields, paste the passportsized photograph (signed across, if required), and attach copies of all the mandatory documents (selfattest, if required).
Step 3: Submit the duly filled and signed application form along with the documents to the Commissioner, Directorate of Art and Culture, Thendral, Dr. D.G.S. Dinakaran Road, Chennai 600 Step 4: Request a receipt or acknowledgement from the concerned authority to whom the application has been submitted. Ensure that the receipt contains essential details such as the date and time of submission, and a unique identification number (if applicable). For more information, please refer to: Guidelines: https://www.tn.gov.in/rti/proactive/inftour/handbook_artculture.pdf Revised Rate: https://artandculture.tn.gov.in/schemes-implemented-tamil-nadu-eyal-isai-nataka-mandram Tags associated with the scheme include: Artist, Crisis, Death, Financial Assistance, Heir.