The name of this welfare scheme is The Meghalaya Tribal Students’ Book Grant (Post-Matric Education). It is also known as TMTSBG-PME. &quot;The Meghalaya Tribal Students’ Book Grant (Post-Matric Education)&quot; scheme was launched by the Directorate of Higher and Technical Education, Meghalaya. Through this scheme, financial assistance is provided to the meritorious tribal students for the purchase of books for their studies. The student should be enrolled in a recognized institution in India. The scheme targets beneficiaries such as Family. It is specifically implemented in Meghalaya. Additionally, the nodal department is Education Department.

The scheme provides the following benefits: The amount of grant per student per academic course will be as follows:

Class 11th 12th (Arts &amp; Commerce): ₹500/Class 11th 12th (Science): ₹700/Degree Arts (Pass): ₹600/Degree Arts (Honours): ₹750/Degree Science (Pass): ₹900/Degree Science (Honours): ₹1000/PostGraduate Course (Arts &amp; Commerce): ₹900/Post Graduate Course (Science): ₹1200/Research studies for (Ph.D. M.Phil, or M.Lit.): ₹1500/NOTE: A student receiving a book grant from the Government for a particular course of study, if changes the course of study will not be granted further grants. 
> Disbursement

The grant to the selected candidates shall be paid through their parents/guardians or through the Instructions in which the candidates pursue their studies.

Eligibility criteria include: The applicant should be a permanent resident of Meghalaya.
The applicant should be a student.
The applicant should belong to the KhasiJaintia or Garo Community or as decided by the state government from time to time.
The applicant should have secured at least 60% marks in aggregate in the preceding examination conducted by the Board/University.
The courses of study should be a regular course other than technical or vocational course.
The course should be pursued by a recognized institution in India.
The applicant should not be employed in any capacity under the Government. The application process is as follows: > Advertisements of scholarship schemes are given to the Press and Government Website [meghalaya.gov.in] after the publication of Boards and University results.

Step 1: The interested applicant should take print of the prescribed format (ANNEXURE ‘A’) of the application form.
Step 2: In the application form, fill in all the mandatory fields and attach copies of all the mandatory documents (selfattest, if required).
Step 3: Submit the duly filled and signed application form along with the documents to the Director of Public Instruction, Meghalaya through the Head of the Institution where the candidate is pursuing his studies.
Step 4: Request a receipt or acknowledgment from the concerned authority to whom the application has been submitted. Ensure that the receipt contains essential details such as the date and time of submission, and a unique identification number (if applicable). For more information, please refer to: Guidelines And Application Form: https://meghalaya.gov.in/sites/default/files/documents/handbook_of_Scholarship_Schemes_0.pdf Tags associated with the scheme include: Book Grant, Education, Financial Assistance, Post-matric Courses, Student.