The name of this welfare scheme is Hostel Facility for Students Availing Education in Delhi. It is also known as HFSAED. The &amp;quot;Hostel Facility for Students Availing Education in Delhi&amp;quot; was launched by the Scheduled Caste Welfare Department, Government of Madhya Pradesh. The objective of the scheme is to provide facilities for residential and other facilities such as water, reimbursement of electricity expenditure, scholarship, etc. for scheduled caste students of Madhya Pradesh studying in higher institutions located in Delhi. Hostel facility will be limited only to scheduled castes and students of Madhya Pradesh studying in Delhi metropolis. This facility will be made available in hostels of various universities/colleges located in Delhi. The scheme targets beneficiaries such as Individual. It is specifically implemented in Madhya Pradesh. The implementing agency is Scheduled Caste Welfare Department, Government Of Madhya Pradesh. Additionally, the nodal department is Tribal Welfare and Scheduled Caste (SC) Department.

The scheme provides the following benefits: Financial assistance is available for students from Madhya Pradesh who are pursuing higher education at institutions (universities and colleges) in Delhi. The assistance covers the following:

  Monthly rent: ₹1,000/per month  Scholarship: ₹500/per month  Water and electricity expenses: ₹100/per month  Onetime grant (at the time of admission): ₹2,000/Note: Payments are made into the bank accounts of the applicants.

Eligibility criteria include: The applicant should be a native of Madhya Pradesh.
   The applicant should be a regular student currently enrolled in or admitted to an undergraduate (first year) or higher class, or professional course at a government or recognized institution located in Delhi.
   The student should belong to the Scheduled Caste category. The application process is as follows: After taking admission in higher education institutions located in Delhi, application has to be submitted to the Residential Commissioner, Madhya Pradesh Bhawan, New Delhi.
  The eligible students must submit the application in the prescribed FormA through the concerned institution to the Special Commissioner, Madhya Pradesh.

Appeal: Residential Commissioner Madhya Pradesh Bhawan, New Delhi and Principal Secretary, Madhya Pradesh Government, Scheduled Caste Welfare Department, Bhopal For more information, please refer to: Scheme Details: https://cmhelpline.mp.gov.in/KnowYourEntitleDetail.aspx?Schemeid=437 Guidelines (Page No. 54): https://aiggpa.mp.gov.in/uploads/publication/Social_Protection_Eng.pdf Tags associated with the scheme include: Delhi, Higher Education, Hostel Facility, Scheduled Caste, Scholarship, Student.