The name of this welfare scheme is SERB - POWER Fellowship. It is also known as SERBPOWERF. SERB - POWER (Promoting Opportunities For Women in Exploratory Research) Fellowship was launched by the Department of Science &amp;amp; Technology, Government of India to mitigate gender disparity in science and engineering research funding in various S&amp;amp;T programs in Indian academic institutions and R&amp;amp;D Laboratories. The fellowship is aimed to enhance diversity in research to ensure equal access and weighted opportunities for Indian women scientists engaged in research and development activities.
&gt; Objectives:

The fellowship is designed to identify and reward excellent women researchers in Indian academic institutions and R&amp;amp;D laboratories, holding Ph.D. degrees in any branch of science and engineering.
&gt; Duration of Fellowship:


  - Fellowship duration will be fixed for three years, without the possibility of extension.
  - Successful POWER Fellows cannot be re-nominated for the second time. The scheme targets beneficiaries such as Individual. The implementing agency is Science And Engineering Research Board, Government Of India. Additionally, the nodal ministry is Ministry Of Science And Technology and the nodal department is Department Of Science & Technology.

The scheme provides the following benefits: Fellowship of ₹15,000/per month in addition to regular income.
   Research grant of ₹10 Lakhs per annum. Research grants can be used for minor equipment, research personnel, consumables, contingencies, and domestic travel.
   Overheads for the host institute.

Eligibility criteria include: The nominee should be an active woman scientist with an excellent record of research performance as an independent investigator.
   The nominee should be an outstanding woman researcher and innovator working in Indian academic institutions and R&amp;amp;D laboratories, holding Ph.D. degrees in any branch of science and engineering.
   The nominee should be in regular service throughout the duration of the Fellowship.
   The nominee should be an Indian citizen between 3555 years of age working in institutions in India.
   The nominee should not be receiving any other fellowships from Government sources during the tenure. The application process is as follows: &gt; Nomination Procedure:


  Applications for the POWER fellowship are invited through nominations.
  The nominations should be sent by the Heads of the Institutions or Fellows of National Academies.
  The nominations will be received throughout the year through online (www.serbonline.in) only.
&gt; Application Procedure:

Step 01: The applicant will fill out the application form on the online portal. After submission of the form, a mail containing a link will be sent to the nominator by SERB.
Step 02: The nominator will click on the link provided in the mail to find the details of the application. After verification of the details, he/she will forward the nomination to SERB.
&gt; Selection Procedure:


  Selection of POWER Fellows will be made twice a year by a specially constituted SearchcumSelection Committee constituted for the purpose.

&gt; For queries &amp;amp; more:

Email: serbpower@serb.gov.in For more information, please refer to: Official Website: https://www.serbonline.in/SERB/serbPowerInstructions?HomePage=New SERB Website: https://serb.gov.in/page/awards_fellowship#SERB%20POWER%20Fellowship Tags associated with the scheme include: Fellowship, POWER, Research, Science, SERB, Woman.