The name of this welfare scheme is Videsh Siksha Yojana (MPBOCWWB). It is also known as VSYMPBOCWWB. The scheme “Videsh Siksha Yojana” has implemented by the Madhya Pradesh Building &amp;amp; Other Construction Workers Welfare Board (MPBOCWWB) under the Labor Department of Madhya Pradesh for the children of registered construction workers from the year 2019. According to the scheme, there is a provision to provide assistance for study abroad to a maximum of 50 students every year to the children of registered construction workers to pursue quality higher education in recognized institutions abroad. Under the scheme, the selected students are entitled to scholarships and other benefits for courses at the postgraduate level and a research degree (Ph.D.) for two years abroad. The scheme targets beneficiaries such as Individual. It is specifically implemented in Madhya Pradesh. The implementing agency is Madhya Pradesh Building & Other Construction Workers Welfare Board. Additionally, the nodal department is Labour Department.

The scheme provides the following benefits: The following financial assistance will be provided to the applicant for pursuing education under the scheme:Tuition Fee: Payment of actual tuition fee or up to $40,000, whichever is less.  Subsistence Allowance: A maximum of $10,000 per year, based on the monthly expenditure in India and abroad as shown by the educational institution where the student is studying.  In addition to the visa fee and insurance premium, secondclass rail/bus fare from the place of residence to the airport and back and actual economyclass airfare to the nearest place of the educational institution and back will be payable.

Note: The amount of grant will be credited into the student&amp;#39;s account as per the prescribed fee payment schedule of the educational institution upon production of a certificate of continuity of studies in the institution.

Eligibility criteria include: The applicant should be a child of a construction worker.
   Either parent of the applicant should be registered with the Madhya Pradesh Building &amp;amp; Other Construction Workers Welfare Board and hold a valid identity card for a continuous period of 5 years.
   To pursue a postgraduate degree, it is mandatory for the applicant to have passed the graduation degree with 60% marks in the first division or its equivalent grade.
   For PhD degree, it is essential to have passed a postgraduate degree with 60% marks in the first division and 02 years of teaching/research/M.Phil degree in the relevant field.
   If the student is receiving benefits from any other source, he/she will not be eligible for this scheme. The application process is as follows: Step 1: To avail of benefits under the scheme, the eligible applicant may visit the ‘Shram Sewa Portal’ of the Madhya Pradesh Building and Other Construction Workers Welfare Board. 
Step 2: On the homepage, click on &amp;quot;Yojana Aavedan&amp;quot;.
Step 3: Enter the Worker Registration Number to view details.
Step 4: Select the scheme and click &amp;quot;Apply for Scheme&amp;quot;.
Step 5: Complete the online application form by filling in all required details and submit your application.
&gt; Designated Officer for Approval:


  Secretary Madhya Pradesh Building &amp;amp; Other Construction Workers Welfare Board, Bhopal For more information, please refer to: Scheme Details: https://labour.mp.gov.in/Public/Pages/Schemes/VideshSikshaYojna.aspx Shram Sewa Portal: https://labour.mp.gov.in/Public/Application/RegsiterSchemeApplication.aspx Tags associated with the scheme include: Abroad, Building Worker, Construction Worker, Financial Assistance, Higher Education, Scholarship.