The name of this welfare scheme is Jal Jeevan Mission. It is also known as JJM. The programme will also implement source sustainability measures as mandatory elements, such as recharge and reuse through grey water management, water conservation, rainwater harvesting. 


The Jal Jeevan Mission will be based on a community approach to water and will include extensive Information, Education and communication as a key component of the mission.
#### Objectives:

1. The broad objectives of the Mission are to provide FHTC to every rural household, schools, anganwadi centres, GP buildings, health centres, wellness centres and community buildings and to monitor FHTC; 
1. To prioritize provision of FHTCs in quality affected areas, villages in drought-prone and desert areas, Sansad Adarsh Gram Yojana (SAGY) villages, etc.; 
1. To promote and ensure voluntary ownership among local community by way of contribution in cash, kind and/ or labour and voluntary labour (shramdaan); 
1. To assist in ensuring the sustainability of water supply system, i.e. water source, water supply infrastructure, and funds for regular O&amp;M; 
1. To empower and develop human resource in the sector such that the demands of construction, plumbing, electrical, water quality management, water treatment, catchment protection, O&amp;M, etc. are taken care of in short and long term; and to bring awareness on various aspects and significance of safe drinking water and involvement of stakeholders in manner that make water everyone&#39;s business. The scheme targets beneficiaries such as Family, Institution, Individual. Additionally, the nodal ministry is Ministry Of Jal Shakti and the nodal department is Department of Drinking Water and Sanitation.

It falls under the categories: Utility & Sanitation.

Eligibility criteria include: This scheme is applicable to all households in rural India. For more information, please refer to: Scheme Guidelines: https://jalshakti-ddws.gov.in/sites/default/files/JJM_Operational_Guidelines.pdf  Dashboard: https://ejalshakti.gov.in/jjmreport/JJMIndia.aspx  Tags associated with the scheme include: Household Tap, Rural Household, Water Supply.