The name of this welfare scheme is Funeral Assistance Scheme (PULWS). It is also known as FAS-PULWS. The &quot;Funeral Assistance Scheme (PULWS)&quot; is a Welfare Scheme for the Unorganized Workers in Puducherry by the &quot;Puducherry Unorganised Labourers&#39; Welfare Society&quot;, Labour Department, Union Territory of Puducherry. The Society extends ₹7,000/- to the nominee of the deceased Unorganised Worker towards meeting the funeral expenses. The amount is credited through Direct Benefit Transfer (DBT) into the bank account of the nominee. The applications are accepted offline. It is specifically implemented in Puducherry. Additionally, the nodal department is Labour Department, Puducherry.

The scheme provides the following benefits: Financial Assistance of ₹7,000/to the nominee of the deceased member towards funeral expenses.
The amount is credited through Direct Benefit Transfer (DBT) into the bank account of the nominee.

Eligibility criteria include: The applicant should be a nominee of the deceased. 
The deceased, in his/her lifetime, should have been a resident of the Union Territory of Puducherry.
The deceased, in his/her lifetime, should have been an Unorganized Worker: Taxi and Auto Drivers, Workers Employed in Shops &amp; Catering Establishments, Carpenters, Nathaswara Vidwans, Hair Dressers, Tailors, Cycle Rickshaw Drivers, Cobblers, Washermans, Goldsmith, Blacksmith, Brass Vessel Makers, Sculptors, Loading and Unloading Workers, Tree Climbers, Pottery Workers, Coir Workers, Toddy Neera Tappers, Bullock Cart Drivers, Thatchers, Cooks, Hawkers, News Paper Vendors, Workers Engaged in Bricks and Tiles Manufacturing, One Hundred, Workers Engaged in Distribution of Liquid Petroleum Gas Cylinder, Domestic Workers, Light Music Instrument Players, Automobile Workshop Workers.
The deceased, in his/her lifetime, should have been enrolled with the Puducherry Unorganised Labourers&#39; Welfare Society.
The deceased, in his/her lifetime, should have been between 18 to 59 years of age.
The deceased, in his/her lifetime, should have been taking an Annual Subscription of ₹100/every year.
The deceased, in his/her lifetime, should have been paying a Registration Fee of ₹25/. The application process is as follows: Step 1: The interested applicant should visit the Office of the Puducherry Unorganised Labourer&#39;s Welfare Society, No.1, Rue Sufferen, Puducherry, and obtain the prescribed format of the application form free of cost from the concerned authority exclusively entrusted to issue and collect filledin applications.
Step 2: In the application form, fill in all the mandatory fields, paste the passportsized photograph (signed across, if required), and attach copies of all the mandatory documents (selfattest, if required).
Step 3: The interested construction worker should submit the duly filled and signed application form and the documents to the concerned authority.
Step 4: Request a receipt or acknowledgement from the concerned authority to whom the application form has been submitted. Ensure that the receipt contains essential details such as the date and time of submission, and a unique identification number (if applicable). For more information, please refer to: Guidelines (Page No. 100): https://labour.py.gov.in/sites/default/files/citizens-charter-2020.pdf Tags associated with the scheme include: Crisis, Death, Financial Assistance, Funeral, Social Welfare, Worker.