The name of this welfare scheme is Nirman Shramiko Ko Videsh Mai Rojgar Hetu Visa Per Hone Wale Vyay Ka Punarbharan Yojana. It is also known as NSVYB. This scheme, launched by the Rajasthan Government&#39;s Labor Department, is designed to alleviate the financial burden of visa expenses for construction workers seeking employment abroad. By reimbursing these costs, the scheme aims to encourage construction workers to pursue overseas employment opportunities and contribute to the state&#39;s economy through foreign remittances. The scheme targets beneficiaries such as Individual. It is specifically implemented in Rajasthan. Additionally, the nodal department is Labour Department.

The scheme provides the following benefits: > The beneficiary will be reimbursed for the expenses incurred for a visa for employment abroad up to a maximum of ₹5,000/.

Eligibility criteria include: Construction workers must be registered with the board as beneficiaries and must be continuously depositing their contributions.
To obtain overseas contract employment, construction worker need permission from the Protector of Emigrants (POE) office under the Emigration Act, The recruiting agency must be registered under the Emigration Act or possess a valid permit from the POE office
The reimbursement of the visa amount will be payable only if the beneficiary has a valid passport with a minimum validity of 6 months along with a valid visa.
The benefit of this scheme will be payable only if the future employment of the beneficiary abroad is in the construction and other construction works.
The beneficiary will be entitled to the assistance amount only once.
If any information given in the assistance application submitted by the beneficiary under the scheme is found to be false, the concerned beneficiary will be responsible for depositing the entire assistance amount approved under the scheme along with interest in one go. The application process is as follows: > Registration

Step1: Applicant have to visit the official portal. 
Step2: Click on the option “Register”.
Step3: Then you will be redirected to the SSO registration page. The registration page will appear with the following options.


  Citizen


Step4: Choose the either one option from  the Jan Aadhaar Or Google to process further.


  Jan Aadhaar : Enter the Jan Aadhaar number, click on the ‘Next’ button,


      Select your name, the name of the head of the family and all the other members and 
      Click on the ‘Send OTP’ button. Enter the ‘OTP’ and 
      Click on the ‘Verify OTP’ button to Complete the registration. 






  Google : Enter the Gmail ID, click on the ‘Next’ button, 


      Enter the password.
      A new link appear on screen, now click on new SSO link.
      SSO id will appear on screen, now create the password.
      Enter Mobile number, click on registration.




 
> Apply 

Step1: Applicant have to visit the official portal. 
Step2: After login, dashboard will open.
Step3: Click on “LDMS” option.
Step4: In LDMS, select &quot;Welfare Schemes&quot; from the side menu and select BOCW Welfare Board. 
Step5: Now click on &quot;Apply for Scheme&quot; on screen. 
Step6: In this new page, will get a list of names of all the schemes of Rajasthan Shramik Card, out of which click on the name of &quot;Yojana&quot;
Step7: Fill out the all relevant detail. 
Step8: Submit.


> Time for applying: After the date of publication of the notification, the registered beneficiary will have to apply within a maximum period of 3 months after obtaining a valid visa as per the rules. For more information, please refer to: Guidelines: https://jankalyanfile.rajasthan.gov.in//Content/UploadFolder/Scheme/LAB_/VISA/DOC_820_45f07db9-c276-4ef1-a382-7c5350622b19.pdf Details: https://schemes.rajasthan.gov.in/scheme/detail/820 Registration: https://sso.rajasthan.gov.in/signin Login: https://sso.rajasthan.gov.in/signin Tags associated with the scheme include: Construction Worker, Empowerment, Financial Support, Labour.