The name of this welfare scheme is National Startup Awards. It is also known as NSA. The National Startup Awards by the Department of Ministry of Commerce and Industry, the government of India gives to benefit entities from such recognition in various aspects of their business, including but not limited to, business, financing, partnerships, and talent, a role model for other entities and budding entrepreneurs. It will inspire them to be purposeful and responsible about their socio-economic impact. 


The first-ever National Startup Awards (‘NSA’) were concluded in October 2020, to recognize and reward outstanding startups and ecosystem enablers that are building innovative products or solutions and scalable enterprises, with high potential of employment generation or wealth
creation, demonstrating measurable social impact .


Categories of Award
Award CategoryAward Focus AreaWomen-Led Innovation Startups led by at least one-woman directorImpact in Rural AreasStartups creating wealth, livelihood and improving lives through their innovations in rural areasNextGen InnovatorStartups with student founders who have built innovative solutions at a young ageIndia’s Social Impact ChampionStartups working towards social impact in healthcare, Indic language, education, livelihood, or any other allied areaExcellence in Innovation from the North-East and Hilly States/UTStartups with innovative solutions from Arunachal Pradesh, Assam, Manipur, Meghalaya, Mizoram, Nagaland, Sikkim, Tripura, Himachal Pradesh, Jammu &amp;amp;amp;amp; Kashmir, Ladakh and UttarakhandSustainability ChampionStartups focused on climate change, sustainability, waste management, renewables, or allied sectorsChampions of Cultural HeritageStartups preserving or proliferating textiles, art, and tourism among othersRetail Innovator of the YearStartups in retail technologies or food processingBest Startup of the Year Startup with the aggregate highest score amongst all categoriesRising Star AwardEarly-stage startups with growth potentialGenesis Innovators of the yearStartups focused on disruptive technology, including, Deep-TechAccessibility Innovation Award Startups working towards improving accessibility for people with disabilities (PwD)Financial Inclusion Award Startups working towards financial inclusion &amp;amp;amp;amp; literacyAeroInnovate Award Startups focused on aerospace, drones, or aviation solutionExcellence in Local to Global Startups with an international consumer baseIndependent Trailblazer Award Startups who have been bootstrapped from their inceptionPivotPro AwardStartups that have changed the existing business model and successfully revamped their business in the face of adversityThe Next Pioneer Award Startups that have strong product-market fit, and are building a sustainable, successful businessInnovators for Agriculture and Animal HusbandryStartups working for adoption and promotion of innovative farming and production practicesIndigenous Ingenuity ChampionStartups that have been manufacturing in India



Rules for National Startup Awards 2023

1. Participation in the National Startup Awards is voluntary.
1. Startups who have been declared winners under any sector/sub-sector or category in any of the previous editions of the National Startup Awards will not be eligible. However, the finalists of the previous editions may apply.
1. Award application form is to be filled in English only.
1. One startup can nominate itself in maximum 2 categories.
1. Finalists maybe subject to a legal due diligence review by independent third-party evaluators. If the individual/organization refuses to such a request, Startup India holds the right to select the next highest scoring nominee as the award winner.
1. By participating in the National Startup Awards, the startups agree to the Government of India’s and its partners use of its name, URL, photos, and videos for promotional purposes on its website and other promotional material.
1. Any false information provided within the context of National Startup Awards by any entity concerning identity, mailing address, telephone number, email address, ownership of right, or non-compliance with these rules or any terms and conditions or the like may result in the immediate elimination of the entity from the awards process.
1. The decisions of the jury and the evaluation agency shall be final and binding.
1. All support agencies, jury, shall sign (physically or digitally) a non-disclosure agreement with Startup India.
1. DPIIT reserves the right at its sole discretion to cancel, terminate, modify, or suspend the National Startup Awards or not award any entity in any of the categories. DPIIT further reserves the right to disqualify any candidate/entity that tampers with the submission process, commits fraud or is in violation of criminal and/or civil laws.
1. Allowances shall not be paid to any entity for travel or presentation before jury The scheme targets beneficiaries such as Business Entity, Industries. Additionally, the nodal ministry is Ministry Of Commerce And Industry and the nodal department is Department For Promotion Of Industry And Internal Trade.

The scheme provides the following benefits: A cash prize of ₹ 10,00,000/will be awarded to one winning startup in each of the categories by Department for Promotion of Industry and Internal Trade (DPIIT)
The winner and the finalists will be given the opportunity to present their solutions to relevant public authorities and corporate for potential pilot projects and work orders.
The winners and finalists will be given priority for participation in various national and international startup events where DPIIT is participating.

Eligibility criteria include: The startup should be a (DPIIT)Department for Promotion of Industry and Internal Trade recognized startup. The entity must submit its certificate of recognition.
   The entity must submit the Certificate of Incorporation issued by the Ministry of Corporate Affairs or Certificate of Registration from the Registrar of Firms of the respective state
   The entity must have a hardware or software product or a process solution that is present in the market.
   The entity must have all applicable trade tradespecific registrations (for example (CE)Common Era, (FSSAI) Food Safety and Standards Authority of India, (MSME)Ministry of Micro, Small &amp;amp; Medium Enterprises, (GST)Goods and Services Tax Registration, etc.)
   There should not have been any default in the last three years (FY)Fiscal year 201920, 2021, 2122) by the entity or any of its promoters or any of their group entities.
   The entity must submit audited financial statements (balance sheet, profit &amp;amp; loss account) for the last three financial years (FY)Fiscal year  201920, 2021, In case your startup is less than 3 years old, please upload all available financial statements. Startups that are less than a year old and do not have audited financials will be exempt from this requirement. In case of nonavailability of audited financials for (FY)Fiscal year  2122, provisional statements issued by Chartered Accountants may be provided.
   The entity should not be completing 10 years of incorporation on or before March 31st,  The application process is as follows: > Step1: Register on Startup India and obtain DPIIT recognition

In case you are already registered on Startup India and have a DPIIT recognition number, ensure that all the details given on Startup India registration are correct as certain fields will autopopulate in the application form. 


> Step 2: Go to the ‘National Startup Awards’ tab on the Startup India Website



> Step 3: Click on the ‘Apply for National Startup Awards 2023’ tab



> Step 4: Click on ‘Apply’ under the application closing countdown and select the category under which the startup wishes to apply. You will only be able to fill out the form through the registered account of the recognized startup on the Startup India portal.



> Step 5: Check the autopopulated details in the participation form for National Startup Awards



> Step 6: Fill in the details as mentioned in the application form



> Step 7: Ensure to keep the documents ready for upload.



> Step 8: Ensure that all the uploads required to comply with the size requirement as mentioned



> Step 9: Click ‘Submit’ For more information, please refer to: Guidelines: https://www.startupindia.gov.in/content/dam/invest-india/Templates/public/National%20Startup%20Awards%202023_Guidelines_010423.pdf Website: https://www.startupindia.gov.in/content/sih/en/nsa2023.html Tags associated with the scheme include: Business, Empower, Self Employment, Startup.