The name of this welfare scheme is Scholarship To Scheduled Castes Students Studying In Government ITI’s. It is also known as SSCSSGI. The scheme “Scholarship to Scheduled Castes Students Studying in Government ITI’s” was launched by the Department of Welfare of Scheduled Castes &amp;amp; Backward Classes, Government of Haryana in the year 2017-18. This scheme is implemented through Skill Development and Industrial Training Department, Haryana. The funds will be provided by this department to Skill Development and Industrial Training Department, Haryana according to their requirement.
       The objective of the scheme is to promote the interest of skill development training in Scheduled Castes youths and to enable them for self-employment and get jobs in Private &amp;amp; Government Sectors. The scheme is 100% funded by the State Government of Haryana. The scheme targets beneficiaries such as Individual. It is specifically implemented in Haryana. The implementing agency is Skill Development And Industrial Training Department, Haryana. Additionally, the nodal department is Welfare of Scheduled Caste & Backward Classes Department.

The scheme provides the following benefits: The scholarship of ₹200/per month will be given to the student of Scheduled Caste in each academic year.
Under the scheme, ₹15/per month as tuition fee will be reimbursed.
Note 01: No scholarship will be given to failed students.
Note 02: The scholarship will be given in two installments in each academic year. The first installment (50% amount) will be given after taking admission to Government ITI’s and the second installment (Remaining 50% of the amount) will be given subject to fulfillment of attendance criteria for appearing in the examination.
Note 03: The payment of the scholarship will be made to students through their Aadhaarlinked bank account instead of cash payment.

Eligibility criteria include: The Scholarship will be given to all Scheduled Castes students who are studying in Government ITI&amp;#39;s situated in Haryana State.
   The students should belong to the Scheduled Castes of Haryana.
   The student should be a resident of Haryana State.

Note: The students taking benefits of this scheme will not be eligible to get benefits under any other State/Central Scheme. The application process is as follows: Step 01: The eligible students should contact to their Head/Principal of ITI&amp;#39;s in which they are studying and collect the application form for the scholarship.
Step 02: Fill in all necessary details in the application form.
Step 03: The completely filled application form along with all the necessary attachments should be submitted to concerned receiving authority in their institute.
Step 04: After successful verification, the students shall be eligible to get the benefits of the scheme. Registration Process:
Step 01: Click the Registration link at the Portal, if you are a new user. Existing users can click on the login button.
Step 02: Enter the Parivar Pehchaan Patra (Family Id), and a List of members will be displayed, Select your Name and Click on the &amp;quot;Generate OTP&amp;quot; button.
Step 03: Enter the OTP received on your registered Mobile Number and Click on the &amp;quot;Verify OTP&amp;quot; button.
Step 04: After OTP Verification, all the details get autofilled in the Registration Form, crosscheck your information.
Step 05: Select Your Department and College, create your Password, and click on the &amp;quot;Register&amp;quot; Button.
Application Process:
Step 01: Click the login link at the Portal and enter your User ID and password to apply for the scholarship.
Step 02: Check eligibility for the scholarship and select the scholarship scheme.
Step 03: Click on the “Apply” button and provide all necessary details like Course, Roll No., Eligibility, etc.
Step 04: Save your application and then submit the application form after careful verification.
Application Tracking:
Step 01: The students can check their Scholarship Application Status using their details like their Aadhaar Number, Academic Session, and scheme applied for. https://harchhatravratti.highereduhry.ac.in/ApplicationStatus For more information, please refer to: Guideline: https://harchhatravratti.highereduhry.ac.in/Notices/State%20SC%20Scheme%20(Govt%20ITI).pdf Website: https://harchhatravratti.highereduhry.ac.in/ Tags associated with the scheme include: ITI, Scheduled Caste, Scholarship, Skill Development, Students.