The name of this welfare scheme is Inter-caste Marriage Scheme. It is also known as ICMS. A scheme of Department of Social Justice and Empowerment, Government of Himachal Pradesh The Inter-caste Marriage Scheme is an initiative by the Government of Himachal Pradesh to promote inter-caste marriages and encourage social integration. Under this scheme, financial assistance of up to Rs.50,000 is provided to couples belonging to different castes who get married. The scheme aims to break down caste barriers and promote social harmony. The scheme targets beneficiaries such as All. It is specifically implemented in Himachal Pradesh. Additionally, the nodal department is Department of Social Justice and Empowerment.

The scheme provides the following benefits: Financial assistance of up to Rs.50,000 is provided to eligible couples.
   The amount is given in two installments Rs.50,000 at the time of registration of marriage and further a fixed amount shall be released as per notification from the department.
   The amount can be used for household expenses, the education of children, or any other purpose deemed necessary by the couple.

&lt;br&gt;

Eligibility criteria include: Either the bride or groom should be a resident of Himachal Pradesh.
   The couple should belong to different castes.
   The couple should have registered their marriage under the Special Marriage Act, The combined income of the couple should not exceed Rs.5 lakh per annum.

&lt;br&gt; The application process is as follows: The couple needs to register their marriage under the Special Marriage Act, of After marriage registration, the couple needs to fill out the application form for the scheme, which can be obtained from the District Social Welfare Office or the official website.   The couple needs to submit the required documents along with the application form to the District Social Welfare Office.   After verification of the documents, financial assistance will be provided to the eligible couples. For more information, please refer to: Guidelines: http://esomsa.hp.gov.in/sites/default/files/Intercaste%20guideline.pdf Application Form: http://esomsa.hp.gov.in/sites/default/files/INTERCAST%20MARRIAGE%20APPLICATION%20FORM-92717135_0.pdf Tags associated with the scheme include: DBT Scheme, Financial Assistance, Inter-caste Marriage.