The name of this welfare scheme is Self Employment Scheme. It is also known as SES. Detailed 

- Under this scheme, Subsidies will be provided to the religious minority communities with the help of Nationalized / Scheduled banks to start or improve a small-scale handicraft industry, service sector, and agro-based activities. 
- People belonging to State Religious Minority Communities are covered under this scheme. (State Religious Minority Communities consist of People belonging to Muslim, Christian, Sikh, Buddhist, and Jain Communities). 
- Subsidy will be 33% of the unit cost or a maximum of Rs. 1.00 Lakh.



The beneficiaries will be selected by the below Selection Panel.

1. MLA of the concerned Assembly Constituency – Chairman
1. Member of the Legislative Council who is a permanent resident in that Taluk - Vice-Chairman
1. Concerned Taluk Tahsildar – Member
1. Executive Officer of concerned Taluk Panchayat-Member
1. The District Lead Bank Manager – Member
1. District Joint Director, Commerce, and Industry – Member
1. Concerned District’s Deputy Director, Women and Child Welfare Department – Member
1. Concerned District Manager, Karnataka Minority Development Corporation- Member Secretary. The scheme targets beneficiaries such as Individual. It is specifically implemented in Karnataka. Additionally, the nodal department is Minorities Welfare Department.

It falls under the categories: Social welfare & Empowerment.

Eligibility criteria include: Eligibility

Applicants must belong to the State Religious Minority Community.
The applicant must be a permanent resident of the State.
The age limit of the applicant is between 18 to 55 years.
Family annual income from all sources should not be more than Rs.81,000/in a rural areas and Rs. 1,03,000 in urban areas.
No member of the applicant&#39;s family shall be an employee of the State/Central/ Government PSU.
Applicants should not have availed of a loan in KMDC earlier. For more information, please refer to: Details: https://kmdc.karnataka.gov.in/29/self-employment-scheme/en Tags associated with the scheme include: Empowerment, Minorities, Self Employment.