The name of this welfare scheme is Artificial Limbs/Assistive Equipments Scheme. It is also known as ALAES. The main objective of this scheme is to provide financial grants to persons with disabilities to buy artificial limbs and auxiliary equipment whose (employed or self-employed) or whose family’s income (in case of dependant) is not more than the decided BPL limit i.e., Rs.46,080/- for rural areas and Rs.56,460/- for urban areas from all sources and this annual income is scaled for per family or as per the amendments made by the Uttar Pradesh Government.
&lt;br&gt;

As per the disability, artificial limbs/auxiliary equipment will be provided to the Persons with Disability:

   1. Mobility Assistance Equipment like:- Tricycles, Wheelchairs, C.P. Chair, Crutches, Walking Sticks and Walking stick.
   1. Students who are visually impaired will be provided with educational equipment like mathematical, abacus, geometry kits and Braille educational kits.
   1. Blind stick for visually impaired persons.
   1. For hearing-impaired persons, different types of hearing-aided equipment and education kits.
   1. M.S.I.D. kit (Multi-Sensory Education Development Kit) for children and students with mental disabilities.
   1. Daily activity kits for people free from leprosy.
   1. In case of multi-disability or persons with disabilities who need more than one assistance/aid equipment, they will be provided with a maximum of Rs.10,000/- financial grant in one go. The scheme targets beneficiaries such as Individual. It is specifically implemented in Uttar Pradesh. Additionally, the nodal department is Empowerment of Persons With Disabilities Department, Uttar Pradesh.

The scheme provides the following benefits: The maximum amount of financial grant will be Rs.8,000/for the purchase of artificial limbs and auxiliary equipment for person with disabilities.


  In case of multidisability or persons with disabilities who need more than one assistance/aid equipment, they will be provided with a maximum of Rs.10,000/financial grant in one go.

Eligibility criteria include: Any person with a disability of any age who is the resident of Uttar Pradesh.
   Such person with disability, whose minimum disability is 40% and should be certified by Competent Authority of State Government. 
   In the state of mental retardation, the state of the blocked or incomplete development of the mind which is specially characterized by abnormalities of growth, which has been certified by the competent authority.
   Medical Officer has recommended for the artificial limbs / accessories required for Person with Disabilities.
   Such person with disabilities who are not benefited by the Indian Government/State Government/Local Bodies in last three years for equipment. However, for the regular students of any educational institution this limit will be for one year.
   The annual income of the applicant or his family is within the definition of the poverty line (currently fixed at Rs. 46,080/in rural areas and Rs. 56,460/per family per year in urban areas) will be eligible for the grant. The application process is as follows: Persons with disabilities can apply through the Office of the PWD Empowerment Officer /Jan Suvidha Kendra/Lokvani kendra. Applicants have to visit the Office of the PWD Empowerment Officer /Jan Suvidha Kendra/Lokvani. 
Get the application form or download it from here.Fill out the form in the prescribed manner.
Attach the required documents ( Photo, Residence/domicile certificate, Certificate of disability, Caste Certificate (if belonging to Scheduled Castes / Backward Classes), Income certificate and Medical report).
Submit the application form to the concerned officer. 
District PWD Empowerment Officer will provide approval of financial grants to applicants against the fund available, on a &#39;First Come and First Serve Basis&#39; by categorizing the applications received.
Auxiliary Equipment will be distributed to beneficiaries through the camps in various districts on the basis of “First Come First Serve”. For more information, please refer to: Guidelines: https://uphwd.gov.in/article/en/accessories-planning Application Form: https://uphwd.gov.in/site/writereaddata/siteContent/202109291242360488Artificial-Organs-Application-Form.pdf Tags associated with the scheme include: Artificial Equipment, Empowerment, Financial Assistance, Welfare.