The name of this welfare scheme is Fawara Sanyantra. It is also known as FSR. The Fawara Sanyantra under the Agriculture Department of the Rajasthan government will give 70% to 75% subsidy to the farmers for installing sprinkler plants. Through this farmers can irrigate more land by getting sprinkler subsidy. The subsidy given by the state government to the farmers will be sent directly to their bank accounts through DBT. To avail of the benefit of the Rajasthan Fawara Sanyantra Subsidy Yojana, a farmer should have land up to 0.2 hectares. So that the fields can be irrigated by installing sprinkler plants. The income of farmers will improve through this scheme. Apart from this, efficient utilization and production will also increase. Besides, 50% to 55% of water can be saved by irrigating the fields through sprinklers.


> Important points


- If the plant purchase bill for the fountain plant is of the same financial year in which the farmer has applied, the grant will be payable to the eligible farmers.
- If the sprinkler plant is found to be correct as per the criteria prescribed in the physical verification, the grant amount will be transferred directly to the farmer&#39;s account. The scheme targets beneficiaries such as Individual. It is specifically implemented in Rajasthan. Additionally, the nodal department is Agriculture Department.

The scheme provides the following benefits: The grant amount is 70% of the unit cost for general farmers.
The grant amount is 75% of the unit cost for small and marginal farmers, Scheduled Caste/Tribe farmers, and women farmers.
The grant is payable up to a maximum area of 5 hectares.

Eligibility criteria include: The Applicant should be a farmer.
The applicant should be a native of Rajasthan.
The farmer should have at least 2 hectares of irrigated agricultural land. The application process is as follows: > Registration

Step1: Applicant have to visit the official portal. 
Step2: Click on the option “Register”.
Step3: Then you will be redirected to the SSO registration page. The registration page will appear with the following options.


  Citizen


Step4: Choose the either one option from  the Jan Aadhaar Or Google to process further.


  Jan Aadhaar : Enter the Jan Aadhaar number, click on the ‘Next’ button,


      Select your name, the name of the head of the family and all the other members and 
      Click on the ‘Send OTP’ button. Enter the ‘OTP’ and 
      Click on the ‘Verify OTP’ button to Complete the registration. 






  Google : Enter the Gmail ID, click on the ‘Next’ button, 


      Enter the password.
      A new link appear on screen, now click on new SSO link.
      SSO id will appear on screen, now create the password.
      Enter Mobile number, click on registration.




Step5: Complete the registration process.


> Apply

Step1: Applicant have to visit the official portal. 
Step2: After login, dashboard will open.
Step3: Click on “ RAJKISAN ” option. 
Step4: In &quot;Farmer&quot;, click on &quot;Application Entry Request&quot;.
Step5: Enter the &quot;Bhamashah Family ID&quot; or &quot;Jan Aadhaar&quot; and search.  
Step6: Select the person name and scheme name. 
Step7: Complete the Aadhaar Authentication and click on Get details. 
Step8: Provide the required details.
            Pensioner Details.
            Bank Details.
            Disability Details.
            Verification Details.
            Upload Documents.
Step9: Submit. For more information, please refer to: Guidelines: https://rajkisan.rajasthan.gov.in/Rajkisanweb/Kisan Registration: https://sso.rajasthan.gov.in/register Log In: https://sso.rajasthan.gov.in/signin Tags associated with the scheme include: Agriculture, Development, Farming, Fountain Plant.