The name of this welfare scheme is RKVY Soil Health and Fertility Village level Soil Testing Lab. It is also known as RKVYSHFVLSTL. Village level labs can be set up by rural youth, village-level entrepreneurs, including SHGs set up under The Rural Awareness Works Experience (RAWE) programme, Krishi Sakhis, students of government schools, and agriculture graduates from SAUs, PACS, etc. The labs should be operated by local youth.
Under the scheme, a one-time financial assistance of Rs 1.5 lakh will be given for establishment of VLSTL.


S. No,ComponentCost (Rs. lakhs)1Soil testing with reagents &amp;amp;amp;amp; sample shaker machine with machine and AMC for one year1.002Distilled water, pH meter, Conductivity meter, Electronic balance, Glass-ware, filter-papers, and other need-based consumables0.50Total1.50

Payment to VLSTLs will be made through DBT mode (provision is to be done by state).


The key objectives of the Mission are as follows:
•	Provide easy access to soil testing facilities for farmers at the grassroot level, and offer affordable soil testing to farmers without the need for traveling long distances.
•	Provide farmers with timely and accurate soil analysis results to enable them to make informed decision regarding fertiliser application and soil management practices.
•	Facilitate customized soil nutrient recommendations based on test results
•	Increase farmers’ awareness about soil health and the importance of soil testing.
•	Enable farmers to optimize their fertiliser use and minimise input costs, and hence avoid under- or over- application
•	Facilitate long-term soil health monitoring and planning
•	Enable collection of soil data at local level. This data may be used for conducting studies, formulating policies, developing region-specific agricultural interventions.
•	Increase employment at village level
•	Strengthen soil testing laboratories in the country The scheme targets beneficiaries such as Individual, Self Help Groups (SHGS), Business Entity. The implementing agency is State Government Department. Additionally, the nodal ministry is Ministry Of Agriculture and Farmers Welfare and the nodal department is Department of Agriculture & Farmers Welfare.

The scheme provides the following benefits: The scheme targets to provide following benefits:
1)	Provide affordable access to soil test
2)	Provide farmers with timely and accurate soil analysis results
3)	Facilitate customized soil nutrient recommendations based on test results
4)	Enable farmers to optimize their fertiliser use and minimise input costs, and hence avoid underor overapplication
5)	Increase awareness among farmers regarding soil health and importance of soil testing
6)	Aid data gathering and enable decisionmaking regionspecific policy formulation
7)	Accelerate employment generation among rural youth
8)	Strengthen soil testing infrastructure in the country

Eligibility criteria include: 1)	The Age of the applicant should be between 18 to 27 years
2)	The Educational Qualification of the applicant should be 10th pass with science and knowledge of computer
3)	The applicant / entrepreneur group should have their own premises / rented building with lease agreement for atleast four years. The application process is as follows: Step 01: Identification of individual beneficiary i.e. village level young entrepreneur and community based beneficiaries i.e., PACS, SHGs, School, Agriculture University, etc., in a transparent and timebound manner


Step 02: Identification of premises for establishment of VLSTL 


Step 03: Verification of proof of procure land equipment / inputs.


Step 04: SLEC will finalise the entrepreneur’s proposals received from the District Level Executive Committee (DLEC). The entire procedure will take maximum one month.


Step 05: State government will release financial assistance to entrepreneurs within a week after approval of application


Step 06: Entrepreneurs after receiving fund will submit receipts of procurement of lab equipment, consumables, etc. to DLEC within 15 days For more information, please refer to: Guidelines: https://fileforwebsite.s3.ap-south-1.amazonaws.com/Implementation.pdf User Manual: https://www.soilhealth.dac.gov.in/assets/Circular%20of%20implementation%20of%20Soil%20Health%20Card.pdf Tags associated with the scheme include: INM, RKVY, Rural Entrepreneur, Soil Health, Soil Testing Lab.