The name of this welfare scheme is Exposure Visits To The Assam Legislative Assembly. It is also known as EVTALA. At the initial stage, groups of students from High School upto College level would be arranged to visit the Assam Legislative Assembly during the sessions, in consultation with the Assam Legislative Assembly Sectt. The educational institutions may be identified, to the extent necessary, with input by the respective DCs/Inspectors of Schools, and the students will be selected by the respective Headmasters/Principals. The students may preferably be from related subjects such as Political Science, Economics, etc. within the Arts/Humanities streams in colleges/higher secondary schools and social sciences in secondary schools. The groups of students would have both girls and boys (if the selected institution is co-educational). Each group will be accompanied and guided by one male and one female teacher to be deputed by the respective Headmasters/Principals. The scheme targets beneficiaries such as Individual. It is specifically implemented in Assam. Additionally, the nodal department is Parliamentary Affairs Department.

The scheme provides the following benefits: Practical Exposure: Students gain practical experience by visiting the Assam Legislative Assembly and witnessing the legislative sessions, debates, and bill discussions.
Interaction: Students have the opportunity to interact with dignitaries such as the Hon&#39;ble Speaker, Chief Minister, Ministers, MLAs, and senior officials.
Understanding of Governance: The scheme helps students understand the functioning of the State Legislative Assembly and the legislative process.

Eligibility criteria include: Educational Institutions: High/Higher Secondary Schools and colleges within Assam are considered for participation.
Subjects/Streams: Students from related subjects such as Political Science, Economics, etc., within the Arts/Humanities streams in colleges/higher secondary schools, and social sciences in secondary schools are preferred.
Selection: Students showing good academic performance and enthusiastic participation in extracurricular activities like debating competitions, student activities, mock parliament, etc., may be selected.
Batch Size: The total number of students in one batch should not exceed Voluntary Participation: Student participation in the visit is voluntary, and only willing students should be selected. The application process is as follows: The selection of educational institutions and students is done in consultation with the respective District Collectors (DCs)/Inspectors of Schools.
Invitations are issued to the Heads of educational institutions with due approval from the Hon&#39;ble Minister, Parliamentary Affairs.
Recommendations from dignitaries like the Hon&#39;ble CM, Ministers, Speaker, Dy. Speaker, MLAs, MPs, etc., are considered for extending invitations.
The participating institutions inform the students about the visit and the code of conduct to be followed.
Transportation arrangements to and from the Assembly and around Guwahati city are made by the Assam State Transport Corporation (ASTC). For more information, please refer to: Guidelines: https://parliamentaryaffairs.assam.gov.in/schemes/exposure-visit-to-assam-legislative-assembly Tags associated with the scheme include: 10th, 12th, Assam Legislative Assembly, Learning, Student Visits.