The name of this welfare scheme is Cash Benefit Scheme Scheme (PBAOCWWB). It is also known as CBS-PBAOCWWB. The &quot;Cash Benefit Scheme&quot; is a Welfare Scheme by the Puducherry Building and Other Construction Workers Welfare Board, Labour Department, Union Territory of Puducherry. The objective of this scheme is to provide educational financial assistance to the wards of construction workers who have secured the top three ranks at the State Level and Regional Level in the Higher Secondary course or its equivalent examinations. The amount is credited through Direct Benefit Transfer (DBT) into the bank account of the nominee/ dependent. The applications are accepted offline. The scheme targets beneficiaries such as Individual. It is specifically implemented in Puducherry. Additionally, the nodal department is Labour Department, Puducherry.

The scheme provides the following benefits: > StateLevel Cash Benefit (Onetime Payment)

a) First Prize: ₹1,00,b) Second Prize: ₹80,c) Third Prize: ₹60,> Region Wise Cash Benefit (Onetime Payment)

a) First Prize: ₹60,b) Second Prize: ₹40,c) Third Prize: ₹20,> Annual Educational Assistance

a) Degree Courses: ₹2,b) Post Graduate Courses: ₹4,c) Diploma courses: ₹2,d) Postgraduate Diploma: ₹3,> Mode of Disbursal

Direct Benefit Transfer (DBT) into the bank account.

Eligibility criteria include: The applicant should be a citizen of India.
The applicant should be a Student.
The applicant should be a ward of a Construction Worker.
The Construction Worker should be registered as a Construction Worker with the Puducherry Building and Other Construction Workers Welfare Board.
The applicant should have secured 1st/2nd/3rd Rank at the State/Regional Level in the Higher Secondary course or its equivalent examination. The application process is as follows: Step 1: The ward of the construction worker should visit the Office of the Puducherry Building and Other Construction Workers Welfare Board (Industrial Estate, Thattanchavady, Puducherry 605 009) and obtain the prescribed format of the application form free of cost from the concerned authority exclusively entrusted to issue and collect filledin applications.
OR
The ward of the construction worker should take print of the prescribed format of the application form provided in the section &quot;Application for Welfare Benefits&quot; on Page No. 94 of the Citizen&#39;s Charter.
Step 2: In the application form, fill in all the mandatory fields, paste the passportsized photograph (signed across, if required), and attach copies of all the mandatory documents (selfattest, if required).
Step 3: The ward of the construction worker should submit the duly filled and signed application form and the documents to the concerned authority.
Step 4: Request a receipt or acknowledgement from the concerned authority to whom the application form has been submitted. Ensure that the receipt contains essential details such as the date and time of submission, and a unique identification number (if applicable). For more information, please refer to: Guidelines (Page No. 72): https://labour.py.gov.in/sites/default/files/citizens-charter-2020.pdf Grievance Redressal (Page No. 131): https://labour.py.gov.in/sites/default/files/citizens-charter-2020.pdf Registration Process & Documents Required (Page No. 57): https://labour.py.gov.in/sites/default/files/citizens-charter-2020.pdf Tags associated with the scheme include: College, Education, School, Student.