The name of this welfare scheme is Mahatma Gandhi National Rural Employment Guarantee Act. It is also known as MGNREGA. An employment scheme by the Ministry of Rural Development, providing provide at least 100 days of guaranteed wage employment in a financial year to every rural household whose adult members volunteer to do unskilled work. Any Indian citizen above the age of 18 years and residing in a rural area can apply to this scheme. The applicant receives guaranteed employment within 15 days from the date of application.


The wage is deposited directly in the Bank Account / Post Office Account of the applicant. Wages are paid within a week, or fifteen days at most. Men and Women are paid equally. MGNREGA covers the entire country with the exception of districts that have a hundred percent urban population. The scheme targets beneficiaries such as Individual. The implementing agency is Gram Panchayats (GPs). Additionally, the nodal ministry is Ministry Of Rural Development and the nodal department is Department of Rural Development.

The scheme provides the following benefits: The applicant receives guaranteed employment within 15 days from the date of application.
Work is to be provided within a radius of 5 kilometers of the applicant’s residence if possible, and in any case within the Block. If the applicant lives more than 5 km away from the worksite, he/she will be entitled to a travel and subsistence allowance (10% of the minimum wage).
Wages are paid within a week, or fifteen days at most. Men and Women are paid equally.
Shade, drinking water, and firstaid are provided at every worksite.



Exclusive measures for the promotion of the participation of the disabled persons:

Identification of suitable works
Mobilization of disabled persons by focussing on awareness and special provisions
Specifically identified works for disabled persons in the case of large GPs
Preference to appoint as mates and as workers for providing drinking water, to manage crèches, etc., at the worksites
Adoption of tools and equipment/facilities at workplaces
Treating persons with disabilities with respect
Special drive to ensure 100 days of employment to such households
Provide a special job card of a distinct color



Specific attention and provisions for Senior Citizens: 

Exclusive senior citizen groups may be formed and special works which require lesser physical effort are identified and allotted to these groups.



Specific attention and provisions for Internally Displaced Persons:

A special job card to be provided will be valid till these families are displaced and will lose its validity as soon as they return to their original place of residence.

Eligibility criteria include: The applicant must be at least 18 years of age.
The applicant must be residing in a Rural Area. The application process is as follows: Step 1: The application for registration may be given on plain paper to the local Gram Panchayat. An individual may appear personally before the Panchayat Secretary or Gram Rozgar Sahayak and make an oral request for registration, in which case the particulars required will be noted by the Gram Rojgar Sahayak or the Panchayat Secretary. 
Application for registration should contain names of those adult members of the household who are willing to do unskilled manual work. Particulars such as age, sex, SC/ST status, Rashtriya Swastha Bima Yojana (RSBY) number, Aadhar number, Below Poverty Line (BPL) status and bank/post office account number (if s/he has opened one) must be provided in the application.
Step 2: The Gram Panchayat (GP) will verify the following details:
Whether the household is really an entity as stated in the application.
Whether the applicant household are local residents in the Gram Panchayat concerned.
Whether applicants are adult members of the household.
The process of verification shall be completed as early as possible, and in any case not later than a fortnight after the receipt of the application in the Gram Panchayat.
Step 3: All particulars of a household found to be eligible after verification, will be entered in the MIS (NREGASoft) by the Panchayat Secretary or the Gram Rojgar Sahayak (GRS) or a person duly authorized by the State Government.
Step 4: If a household is found to be eligible for registration, the GP will, within a fortnight of the application, issue a JC to the household. JC should be handed over to one of the members of the applicant household in the presence of a few other residents of the GP. The format of the Job Card is provided in the Annexure5 of the scheme guidelines.
The detailed format for application for registration is provided in Annexure3 of the scheme guidelines.
 Registrations shall be opened throughout the year at the Gram Panchayat (GP) office.
 Application for registration must be made on behalf of the household by any adult member. Individuals should also be given the option to make registration to apply for registration at other touch points such as Community Service Centre (CSC). The CSC operator will fill in the details in the application form and forward the filled application form to the concerned GP for necessary action. State Government will issue necessary enabling orders in this regard.
 Registrations shall be opened throughout the year at the Gram Panchayat (GP) office.
 Application for registration must be made on behalf of the household by any adult member. One can download UMANG App or visit website https://web.umang.gov.in/webnew/home The citizen can login using a mobile number and OTP.
Once logged In, citizen can search for MGNREGA.
Click on “Apply for Job Card”
Fill in the basic details, choose the mode of payment of pension, upload photo and click on “Submit”. For more information, please refer to: Guidelines: https://nrega.nic.in/Circular_Archive/archive/Operational_guidelines_4thEdition_eng_2013.pdf FAQ: https://nrega.nic.in/Circular_Archive/archive/nrega_doc_FAQs.pdf Tags associated with the scheme include: Employment, Job, Labour, Panchayat, Unskilled.