The name of this welfare scheme is Kisan Pension Yojana. It is also known as KPY. The Kisan Pension Yojana, implemented by the Department of Social Welfare of Uttarakhand, provides financial assistance in the form of monthly pension to eligible farmers. This scheme supports old age farmers, who owning up to 02 hectares of land and cultivate their own land and do not receive any other pension. This initiative to ensure financial security for the elderly farming community in Uttarakhand. The scheme targets beneficiaries such as Individual. It is specifically implemented in Uttarakhand. Additionally, the nodal department is Department Of Social Welfare.

The scheme provides the following benefits: > Monthly pension of ₹1,200/(one thousand two hundred).

Eligibility criteria include: The applicant must be a permanent resident of Uttarakhand.
The applicant&#39;s age should be more than 60 years.
The applicant should not get pension benefits from any other sources.
The Applicant should have a maximum of 2 hectares of land and do farming on the same. The application process is as follows: Apply for Scheme: 
Step 1: Visit the Official Website of the Department Of Social Welfare.
Step 2: Click on “New Online Application” in the menu item for Online Application.
Step 3: The registration form will be displayed.
Step 4: Select the scheme in the registration form and fill in the required information.
Step 5: After saving the application form, the applicant will receive the password of the applicant login by SMS at the address given by the applicant.
Step 6: Click on the “Applicant Login” under the menu item to apply online using these login IDs and passwords.
Step 7: Once you have successfully logged in , the information on your registered application form will be updated as needed.
Step 8: Upload the documents required for the scheme (as indicated in the required document menu item) by clicking the Upload documents menu item (File type: pdf; file size: 1 MB).
Step 9: After uploading all the required documents, the applicant will be able to take a printout of the application form by clicking on the Print Application Form menu item.
Step 10: After uploading all the required documents, the applicant will be able to take a printout of the application form by clicking on the Print Application Form menu item.


Track Application:
Step 1: Visit the Official Website of the Department Of Social Welfare.
Step 2: Click on Check your pension status in the menu item.
Step 3: Enter your Enter application number/ Mobile number/ Aadhaar number
Step 4: Then click on the “Search” button to see the application status.


Note: Once your application is under process or processed, you cannot update. For more information, please refer to: Scheme Details: https://socialwelfare.uk.gov.in/pages/display/115-kisan-pension Registration: https://ssp.uk.gov.in/OnlineRegistration/FrmKisanOnlineApplicationForm.aspx Tags associated with the scheme include: Empowerment, Farmer, Uttarakhand.