The name of this welfare scheme is Opening and Maintenance of Boys and Girls Hostels. It is also known as OMBGH. The scheme &quot;Opening and Maintenance of Boys and Girls Hostels” by the Adi Dravidar Welfare Department, Government of Puducherry, provides boarding/lodging and hostel facilities to the Scheduled Caste students in pursuance of their education and to dissuade dropping of education at school and college level. The scheme targets beneficiaries such as Individual. It is specifically implemented in Puducherry. Additionally, the nodal department is Adi Dravidar Welfare Department, Puducherry.

The scheme provides the following benefits: Free Lodging.
Free Boarding.
Cash Payment in Lieu of 2 Pairs of Clothing.
Conveyance Charges for 6 Times (3 Down and 3 Up) in a Year.

Eligibility criteria include: The applicant should be from a Scheduled Caste.
The applicant should be a Student.
The applicant should be a Native/Resident of the Union Territory of Puducherry for not less than 5 years.
For Other Economically Backward Classes, the Income of the parent/guardian should not exceed ₹ 75,000/.
The Parent/Guardian of the applicant should not be living within a radius of 5 km from the hostel. The application process is as follows: Step 1: Visit the Official Website of the eDistrict Portal of the Government of Puducherry.
Step 2: At the top right corner of the home page, click &quot;Login&quot;. In the login screen, click &quot;Register a New Membership&quot;.
Step 3: On the Registration Page, fill in all the mandatory fields: Username, Password, Confirm Password, Personal Details (Full Name, First Name, Email Address, Address, Current Address, Gender, Date of Birth, Mobile Number). Agree to the declaration. Fill in the Captcha Code, and click &quot;Signup&quot;.
Step 4: Visit the Official Website of the eDistrict Portal of the Government of Puducherry.
Step 5: At the top right corner of the home page, click &quot;Login&quot;. In the login screen, provide your Username and Password, fill in the Captcha Code, and click &quot;Sign In&quot;.
Step 6: On the next screen, a list of schemes by the Government of Puducherry will be displayed Departmentwise.
Step 7: Click on the scheme you wish to apply for. You will be taken to its online application form.
Step 8: In the application form, fill in all the mandatory fields (marked with a red asterisk) and upload all the mandatory documents (selfattest if required). 
Step 9: Tick the declaration stating &quot;I hereby declare that the abovementioned details are true and correct as per the best of my Knowledge&quot;. Submit the application and note the application number for tracking your application. The application number will also be received on your Registered Mobile Number / Registered Email ID.
Track Your Application here
 Access the User Manual for Online Application here Step 1: The interested applicant should visit (during office hours) the Office/ SubOffice of the Adi Dravidar Welfare and Scheduled Tribes Welfare Department, and request the hard copy of the prescribed format of the application form from the staff exclusively entrusted to issue and collect filledin applications.
Step 2: In the application form, fill in all the mandatory fields, paste the passportsized photograph (signed across, if required), and attach copies of all the mandatory documents (selfattest, if required).
Step 3: Submit the duly filled and signed application form along with the documents to the concerned authority.
Step 4: Request a receipt or acknowledgement from the concerned authority to whom the application has been submitted. Ensure that the receipt contains essential details such as the date and time of submission, and a unique identification number (if applicable). For more information, please refer to: Guidelines: https://adwelfare.py.gov.in/opening-and-maintenance-boys-and-girls-hostels Citizen's Charter: https://py.gov.in/sites/default/files/citizencharter-adidravidar.pdf Contact Us: https://adwelfare.py.gov.in/contact-us Track Your Application: https://edistrict.py.gov.in/User/TrackApplication.aspx Tags associated with the scheme include: Boarding, College, Hostel, Lodging, School, Student.