The name of this welfare scheme is Innovation In Science Pursuit For Inspired Research (INSPIRE) - Fellowship. It is also known as INSPIRE-F. INSPIRE Fellowship is one of the components of INSPIRE scheme implemented by the Department of Science and Technology (DST), Government of India to strengthen the Science and Technology base of the country. This Component focuses on attracting students to pursue doctoral degrees in basic and applied sciences including engineering, medicine, agriculture, veterinary, pharmacy, etc. after either master’s degree in science/engineering or a bachelor/ master’s degree in Medicine. The scheme targets beneficiaries such as Individual. Additionally, the nodal ministry is Ministry Of Science And Technology and the nodal department is Department Of Science & Technology.

The scheme provides the following benefits: &gt; Duration

The fellowship shall be tenable for a maximum period of five years from INSPIRE Fellowship “Effective Date” or completion of the Ph.D. program (i.e. up to the date of successful Ph.D. vivavoce), whichever is earlier.
&lt;br&gt;

&gt; HRA

HRA to the Fellows shall also be applicable as per GoI norms depending upon the location of the Host Institute.
&lt;br&gt;

&gt; Contingency Expenditure

Expenditure of contingency grant would be governed as per host institution norms. The limit of the contingency grant is ₹20,000/annum. The unspent balance of the contingency grant at the end of a year shall be adjusted to the next year with a maximum ceiling of ₹ 20,&lt;br&gt;

&gt; Internship

INSPIRE Fellow shall be allowed for availing of a shortterm Research Internship at any national or international Laboratory/ University/ Institute up to a maximum period of 18 months either in one or multiple slots during 5 years tenure of Fellowship. 
&lt;br&gt;

&gt; Upgradation of Fellowship from JRF to SRF

The upgradation of Fellowship from Junior Research Fellowship (JRF) to Senior Research Fellowship (SRF) would normally be considered after the completion of two (2) years of INSPIRE Fellowship. However, it can be considered after completion of one year as JRF if INSPIRE Fellow has an acceptance of at least one research paper (as a 1st Author) in any international peerreviewed journal from the Ph.D. work carried out at the respective Host Institute.
&lt;br&gt;

&gt; Mode and Cycle of Payment

The fellowship grant shall be transferred through PFMS to the student’s host institute’s ZBSA Bank Account in the Bank of Maharashtra following CNA (Central Nodal Agency) Model. Host the institute shall transfer monthly fellowship to students’ bank accounts following the host institute norms.

Eligibility criteria include: 1st Rank Holders in any recognized University and academic Institutions (Excluding Autonomous Colleges) in India in PostGraduate (PG) level examination in Basic/Applied Sciences including Engineering, Pharmacy, Agricultural Sciences, and Veterinary Sciences. 
1st Rank Holders at the Graduate/Postgraduate Level Examination in Medicine only conducted by a University/ Institution in India.
1st Rank should be obtained in university in basic/applied science subject course/program having a batch size of a minimum of 07 students with a minimum aggregate of 70% marks (or CGPA equivalent) for the entire course/ program.



OR



INSPIRE Scholars who have secured a minimum of 70% marks (or CGPA equivalent) in aggregate at M.Sc. integrated M.S. / M.Sc.



Note 1: Merely fulfilling the eligibility criteria for the INSPIRE Fellowship will not guarantee the final offer of fellowship. 
Note 2: Subject Expert Committee (SEC) will finally recommend the applications for the award of INSPIRE Fellowship considering the academic merit, research proposal, supervisor’s research credentials and host institution, etc. parameters on a competitive basis.
Note 3: This Fellowship shall be available only for pursuing a fulltime Ph.D. program in any recognized University / Institution/ R&amp;D Laboratory in the country.


> PostSelection Eligibility Criteria for Continuation of the Fellowship


Keep DST updated regarding the Research progress made during fellowship tenure.
INSPIRE Fellow shall not take any paid or unpaid assignment other than related to his/her approved research program. However, if required, the fellow may assist the host institute in its academic activities as per Ph.D. program guidelines governed by the Host Institution, provided such assignments shall not hamper the progress of the research work of the fellow. 
Once the INSPIRE Fellow joins the Fellowship, he/she shall complete the research work within the 5 years tenure of the fellowship to achieve the approved objectives of the research problem.
The INSPIRE Fellow must acknowledge the support provided by DST in all the publication(s)/patent(s) and Ph.D. Thesis.
Soft copy of the Ph.D. thesis published research papers and patent details if any shall be submitted in a USB storage device to the INSPIRE Programme Division of DST by speed post.
DST needs to be informed about any disciplinary action taken by the University against INSPIRE Fellow. The application process is as follows: > Call for INSPIRE Fellowship Applications

Call for INSPIRE Fellowship applications is announced during 3 rd/4th quarter of each financial year. Applications are sought from the eligible students through the given below INSPIRE Webportal: https://www.onlineinspire.gov.in


One can apply for the INSPIRE Fellowship, online mode, only against the call. To apply online, please visit the link https://www.onlineinspire.gov.in and follow the guidelines as given:


Step 1: Log in to the portal by entering the username (registered Email ID) and password.
Step 2: A screen will appear where you have to click the ‘Fellowship’ link.
Step 3: After clicking on the ‘Fellowship’ link, please click the button ‘Apply for Fellowship’.
Step 4: Fill in the mandatory fields of the following section by clicking the &#39;EDIT&#39; button: Personal Particulars, Contact Details, Educational Qualification (from class 12th standard onwards), Eligibility Criteria, Enrolment in Ph.D., Current Employment details.
Step 5: Check the Declaration Button. Enter Place, Date, and Verification Code (CAPTCHA). 
Step 6: Click &#39;Submit&#39;. Once you click the SUBMIT Button, a page will appear mentioning that your application has been submitted successfully. A reference number will also be mentioned which shall be used for any communication.


Note 1: Please SAVE your filled details before proceeding to the next section.
Note 2: Fields marked  are mandatory.


IMPORTANT: Please note that you cannot Edit/Modify your application once you click SUBMIT Button. Please ensure that all the particulars you have provided are correct. You can click the &#39;PRINT PREVIEW&#39; button to view the details entered.


> Check Application Status


One can view the status of the application by entering the Application Reference Number in the portal. 
All applicants selected for the INSPIRE Fellowship shall be informed by an Email notification sent to the registered Email ID.



Online Selection Process

Twotier selection process i.e. screening of eligible applications by an Internal Committee, followed by final selection through an Expert Committee. However, the selection process will be expected to complete within 6 months from the last date of submission of the application/requisite documents.
The result (provisional/final offer/Rejection) of the selection process will be communicated to individually selected candidates through an online web portal (www.onlineinspire.gov.in) only. The result shall be uploaded on the respective applicant’s INSPIRE webportal account only. For more information, please refer to: Guidelines: https://www.online-inspire.gov.in/Content/GuideLine/FellowShipGuidelines.pdf FAQs: https://www.online-inspire.gov.in/Content/FellowshipFAQ.pdf User Manual For Online Application: https://www.online-inspire.gov.in/readwritedata/template/FellowshipTemplate/Guidelines_Fellowship.pdf Contact Us: https://www.online-inspire.gov.in/Account/ContactUs Tags associated with the scheme include: Doctoral, Fellowship, Science, University.