The name of this welfare scheme is Additional Pension to 100% Disabled Ex-Serviceman having No Child. It is also known as APDEMNC. The scheme &amp;quot;Additional Pension to 100% Disabled Ex-Serviceman having No Child&amp;quot; is implemented by the Sainik and Ardh Sainik Welfare Department, Government of Haryana. Under the scheme, an additional amount of ₹100/- per month, in addition to the pension amount, is provided to 100% disabled ex-servicemen who were members of the Armed Forces and have been released from service due to 100% disability or permanent incapacity to work, provided the disability or incapacity is attributable to service. The additional amount is given only to those Ex-Servicemen who have no children, irrespective of rank, until death. The scheme targets beneficiaries such as Individual. It is specifically implemented in Haryana. The implementing agency is Sainik And Ardh Sainik Welfare Department, Government Of Haryana. Additionally, the nodal department is Sainik and Ardh Sainik Welfare Department.

The scheme provides the following benefits: An additional amount of ₹100 per month is given to 100% disabled exservicemen, irrespective of rank, until death.

Mode of Payment:
Each Secretary of District Sainik Board will make payment of additional pension on a quarterly basis by money order or in cash, as may be convenient.

Eligibility criteria include: The applicant should be a permanent resident of Haryana.
   The applicant should be an Exserviceman. An exserviceman means a member of the Armed Forces who is released from service due to 100% disability or permanent incapacity to work and the disability or incapacity is attributable to service.
   The applicant should have 100% disability.
   The benefit is provided only to those ExServicemen who have no children, irrespective of rank, until death. The application process is as follows: &gt; Registration Process on AntyodayaSARAL Portal:

Step 01: The eligible applicant may apply online through the Official PortalAntyodayaSARAL Portal. 
Step 02: If the applicant is not registered on the portal, he/she gets registered there. 
Step 03: For registration, click “New User” under ‘Sign In Here’ and fill in all the mandatory details i.e. Name, Email ID, Mobile Number, Password &amp;amp; State. Click on ‘Submit’.
Step 04: Verify your mobile number and email ID through the received OTP and complete the registration process.
&gt; Login to apply for the scheme:

Step 01: To avail the benefits of the scheme, visit the Official AntyodayaSARAL Portal and log in through the email ID used while registering.
Step 02: Enter Password &amp;amp; Captcha and click on ‘Login’.
Step 03: After successful login, click on ‘Apply for Services’ and then ‘View all Available Services’
Step 04: Now, you can search for the scheme and download the predefined Affidavit form/template and you will need to upload the filledin/signed form/template in the &amp;#39;Attach Enclosures&amp;#39; screen.
Step 05: Click on ‘Proceed to Apply’ to fill out the application form. Enter your Parivar Pehchan Patra numberFamily ID and click on “Click here to Fetch Family Data” which displays the family members registered under the given Family ID.
Step 06: Select the beneficiary/applicant name and enter the OTP that is being sent to the selected family member for verification. Click on “Click to Verify”
Step 07: Fill in all the mandatory details and upload all the mandatory documents.
Step 08: Preview the application form and click on ‘Submit’.
&gt; Tracking of Application:

Applicants can track their applications through the Official AntyodayaSARAL Portal by entering their Department Name, Scheme Name, and Application Reference ID. For more information, please refer to: Scheme Details: https://kms.saralharyana.nic.in/ViewDoc?Id=7kDaGn2G0FAwOp1V%2ff8Jxg%3d%3d Notification: https://csharyana.gov.in/WriteReadData/Policies/Defence-II/2526.pdf Antyodaya-SARAL Portal: https://saralharyana.gov.in/ Tags associated with the scheme include: Additional Pension, Disability, Ex-Serviceman, PwD, Sainik.