The name of this welfare scheme is Mini Sprinkler Sanyantr. It is also known as MSS. The Mini Sprinkler Sanyantr scheme Under the Agriculture Department Rajasthan government will provide 70% to 75% subsidy to farmers for installing sprinkler plants. Through this farmers can irrigate more land by getting sprinkler subsidy. The subsidy given by the state government to the farmers will be sent directly to their bank accounts through DBT. The income of farmers will improve through this scheme. Apart from this, efficient utilization and production will also increase.


> The important points


1. After the administrative approval of the Horticulture Department is issued, the plants should be ordered and installed as per the departmental norms.
1. If found correct during physical verification, the grant amount is transferred to the account of the farmer or the supplier manufacturer/dealer with the consent of the farmer. The scheme targets beneficiaries such as Individual. It is specifically implemented in Rajasthan. Additionally, the nodal department is Agriculture Department.

The scheme provides the following benefits: General farmers: Up to 70% of the grant
Small and marginal farmers, including small marginal/SC/ST/women farmers: Up to 75% of the grant

Eligibility criteria include: The agricultural land should be owned by the applicant.
The applicant must be a farmer residing in Rajasthan.
Farmers should have at least 2 hectares of irrigated cultivable land. The application process is as follows: > Registration

Step1: Applicant have to visit the official portal. 
Step2: Click on the option “Register”.
Step3: Then you will be redirected to the SSO registration page. The registration page will appear with the following options.


  Citizen


Step4: Choose the either one option from  the Jan Aadhaar Or Google to process further.


  Jan Aadhaar : Enter the Jan Aadhaar number, click on the ‘Next’ button,


      Select your name, the name of the head of the family and all the other members and 
      Click on the ‘Send OTP’ button. Enter the ‘OTP’ and 
      Click on the ‘Verify OTP’ button to Complete the registration. 






  Google : Enter the Gmail ID, click on the ‘Next’ button, 


      Enter the password.
      A new link appear on screen, now click on the new SSO link.
      SSO id will appear on the screen, now create the password.
      Enter Mobile number, click on registration.




Step5: Submit.


> Apply

Step1: Applicant have to visit the official portal. 
Step2: After login, dashboard will open.
Step3: Click on “ RAJKISAN ” option. 
Step4: In &quot;Farmer&quot;, click on &quot;Application Entry Request&quot;.
Step5: Enter the &quot;Bhamashah ID&quot; or &quot;Janaadhaar ID&quot; and search.  
Step6: Select the person name and scheme name. 
Step7: Complete the Aadhaar Authentication and click on Get details. 
Step8: Provide the required details.
            Pensioner Details.
            Bank Details.
            Disability Details.
            Verification Details.
            Upload Documents.
Step9: Submit. For more information, please refer to: Guidelines: https://rajkisan.rajasthan.gov.in/Rajkisanweb/Kisan Registration: https://sso.rajasthan.gov.in/register Login: https://sso.rajasthan.gov.in/signin Tags associated with the scheme include: Agriculture, Farmer, Farming, Mini Sprinkler Sanyantr.