The name of this welfare scheme is Snehasanthwanam. It is also known as Skerala. The Government of Kerala has launched the “Snehasanthwanam” scheme under the Kerala Social Security Mission. The scheme acts as a relief measure for the Endosulfan victims in the state of Kerala. Under this scheme, financial assistance has been granted from December 2010 onwards to the Endosulfan victims. This scheme also aims to provide educational assistance to the Children of Endosulfan-affected families. In addition to this, Kerala Social Security Mission is now providing monthly assistance of ₹700/- per month to the caregivers of Endosulfan victims who are fully bedridden or mentally retarded under the special Aswasakiranam scheme. The scheme targets beneficiaries such as Individual. It is specifically implemented in Kerala. The implementing agency is Kerala Social Security Mission. Additionally, the nodal department is Social Justice Department.

The scheme provides the following benefits: Under the scheme, financial assistance of ₹2200/is given to the bedridden Endosulfan victims.
   Financial assistance of ₹1700/is given to such bedridden Endosulfan victims who are getting ₹300/per month as a disability pension.
   All other Endosulfan victims are given ₹1200/based on the list furnished by the District Collector.
   In addition to this, monthly assistance of ₹700/is given to the caregivers of Endosulfan victims who are fully bedridden or mentally retarded under the special Aswasakiranam scheme.
   Educational assistance will be provided to the Children of Endosulfan affected families as under:

      a)	Children studying in buds school – ₹ 2000/.
      b)	Children studying in Class 1st to 7th – ₹2000/.
      c)	Children studying in Class 8th to 10th – ₹3000/.
      d)	Children studying in Plus One and Plus Two – ₹4000/.

Eligibility criteria include: The applicant should be a resident of Kerala State.
The applicant should be an Endosulfan victim. The application process is as follows: To avail of the benefits of the scheme, the application duly filled out should be submitted to the Kasaragod District Collector Office.
Note: The applicant may also visit Kerala Social Security Mission offices or the Social Justice Department in Kerala. For more information, please refer to: Official Website: https://socialsecuritymission.gov.in/scheme_info.php?id=MTM= Tags associated with the scheme include: Bedridden, Educational Assistance, Endosulfan, Financial Assistance, Victim.