The name of this welfare scheme is Economic Help To Tribal Girls For Higher Education (College Level). It is also known as EHTTG. In order to encourage tribal girl students of Rajasthan state to study in higher education and to promote girl education, financial assistance is provided to tribal girl students for higher education (college level). The scheme targets beneficiaries such as Individual. It is specifically implemented in Rajasthan. Additionally, the nodal department is Tribal Area Development Department.

The scheme provides the following benefits: Annual financial assistance of Rs. 5,000/is provided for 10 months at the rate of Rs.500/per month.

Eligibility criteria include: The girl student should belong to the tribal class of Rajasthan.
The girl student should be regularly studying general education in a private/government college.
The parent/guardian/guardian/husband of the student should not be an income taxpayer.
After passing the board examination, there should not be any gap in the continuous study of the student applying for the scheme.
The student who is studying by living in a hostel run by the government. They will not be entitled to benefit under the said scheme.
Must have Vaidya Bhamashah card and Aadhaar card.
The girl student should be a native of Rajasthan. The application process is as follows: Applicant to log in to RajSSO Portal using his/her SSOID.If SSOID is not available then the applicant to first register on RajSSO Portal to create SSOID and update SSO Profile at first login.After successful authentication/login and updation of the SSOID Profile and select the scheme name. 
Select his/her name, the bank account and fill in personal details.
Upload the required document.
Click the “SUBMIT” button. For more information, please refer to: Guidelines: https://schemes.rajasthan.gov.in/scheme/detail/451 Registration: https://sso.rajasthan.gov.in/register Tags associated with the scheme include: Educational Grant, Financial Assistance, Higher Education, Student.