The name of this welfare scheme is Tuber Crops Potato, Tapioca, Colocasia. It is also known as TCPTC. The scheme “Tuber Crops (Potato, Tapioca, Colocasia) Scheme” was launched by the Department of Agriculture &amp;amp; Farmers’ Welfare, Government of Meghalaya to boost up production and productivity of potato per unit area by providing quality HYV seeds, and equipment at 50% subsidy. The Scheme also aims to popularise and encourage the cultivation of tapioca, colocasia, sweet potato, etc. The scheme targets beneficiaries such as Individual. It is specifically implemented in Meghalaya. The implementing agency is Department Of Agriculture & Farmers’ Welfare, Government Of Meghalaya. Additionally, the nodal department is Agriculture Department.

The scheme provides the following benefits: > Pattern of Assistance:

Supply of HYV seeds, pesticides, and sprayers to farmers for sale at a 50% subsidy.
> Type of Assistance and Entitlement (If any):

Sl. No.EntitlementOwantum of Assistance1To boost up the production of potato by providing quality HYV seed, organicbased plant protection measures, and P.P equipment.50% sale to the farmers.2For the potato seed experimental farm Upper Shillong, all inputs are provided for the purpose of multiplication of Breeder seed into foundation seed potato before distribution to a farmer.NA

Eligibility criteria include: The applicant/farmer should be a resident of Meghalaya.
   The applicant should be a bonafide farmer engaged in Agriculture, possessing own or leased land of at least 2 (hectares) or more.

Note: The applicant farmer can avail of the benefits of the scheme on a first come first serve basis. The application process is as follows: > Application Process:

Step 01: The eligible bonafide farmer can apply/write an application on plain paper.
Step 02: Along with the application, attach copies of all the mandatory documents (selfattest, if required).
Step 03: Submit the duly filled and signed application along with the documents at your nearest office of the Horticulture Development Officer of a CD Block/ Horticulture Circle.
> Mode of Selection of Beneficiary(s):

Bonafide farmers on a first come first serve basis.
> Whom to Contact:

District Horticulture Officer
Horticulture Development Officer For more information, please refer to: Official Website: https://megagriculture.gov.in/PUBLIC/schemes_ShowSchemesH.aspx?schid=97 Tags associated with the scheme include: Agriculture, Colocasia, Farmer, Horticulture, Potato, Subsidy, Tapioca, Tuber Crops.