The name of this welfare scheme is CBSE Merit Scholarship Scheme For Single Girl Child. It is also known as MSSSGC. A scholarship scheme by the Ministry of Education for meritorious Single Girl Students, who are the only child of their parents; and have passed the CBSE Class 10th Examination with 60% or more marks and are continuing their further school education of Class 11th and 12th. The scheme is aimed to recognize the efforts of the parents in promoting education among girls and to provide encouragement to meritorious students. The rate of the scholarship shall be ₹500/- per month. A scholarship awarded under the scheme shall be paid for a maximum period of two years. Payment will be made through ECS/NEFT. The tuition fee should not be more than ₹1,500/- per month during the academic year, shall be considered for the purpose. In the next two years, the total enhancement in tuition fees in such a school shall not be more than 10% of the tuition fee charged. The scholarship shall be awarded to Indian Nationals only. The scheme targets beneficiaries such as Individual. The implementing agency is Central Board Of Secondary Education. Additionally, the nodal ministry is Ministry of Education and the nodal department is Department of School Education and Literacy.

It falls under the categories: Education & Learning, Women and Child.

Eligibility criteria include: The applicant should be the single girl child of her family.
The applicant should have secured 60% or more marks in the CBSE Class 10th Examination and be studying Class 11th &amp; 12th in School (affiliated with CBSE).
The tuition fee should not be more than ₹1,500/per month during the academic year. In the next two years, the total enhancement in tuition fees in such a school shall not be more than 10% of the tuition fee charged.
The applicant must be an Indian National.
The student must continue her school studies in Classes 11th and 12th.
The applicant should have passed the CBSE Class 10th Examination in 2019 and will be considered.



NOTE: 

NRI applicants of the Board are also eligible for the award. The tuition fee for the NRIs has been decided maximum of Rs. 6,000/per month.
A beneficiary under the scheme while availing of the scholarship can enjoy other concessions given by the school in which she is studying other organization(s). For more information, please refer to: Guidelines: https://www.cbse.gov.in/cbsenew/scholar/SGC%20Sship%20Scheme.pdf Tags associated with the scheme include: Girl Child, Scholarship.