The name of this welfare scheme is Kaimagga Vikasa Yojana - Karnataka. It is also known as KVY-K. The “Kaimagga Vikasa Yojana” was launched by the Department of Handloom &amp; Textiles, Government of Karnataka. The scheme aims to sustain and develop the handloom weaving skills of existing weavers and to attract young talent to the industry, thus preserving the rich cultural heritage of handloom weaving in Karnataka. The scheme is designed to help both traditional and new weavers by offering support for the purchase of new handlooms and necessary equipment.


> Equipment Covered:

Equipment such as handlooms, electronic jacquards, pre-loom facilities like knotting machines, and warping machines are covered under the scheme. The scheme targets beneficiaries such as Individual. It is specifically implemented in Karnataka. Additionally, the nodal department is Department of Handlooms and Textiles.

The scheme provides the following benefits: > Subsidy: 


Beneficiaries can get 50% of the unit cost of new handloom/equipment/machinery. 



> Disbursement of Subsidy:


50% after initial verification and the remaining 50% after confirming the purchase of equipment.



NOTE: The remaining 50% can be financed by the beneficiary from a financial institution/bank loan or through the beneficiary&#39;s own capital.

Eligibility criteria include: The weaver should have membership in Handloom Weaver Cooperative Societies residing in their own house/rented house, or Handloom Associations/Organisations/Karnataka Development Corporation. 
Traditional weavers should practice the current handloom weaving profession. 
The weaver should have a Weaver&#39;s Identity Card.
Young men and women who are starting their weaving career must have completed training in handloom weaving under any government scheme and possess the relevant certificate.
The weaver purchasing a warping machine should have a proper certificate of experience in washing and the necessary space to install the machine. The application process is as follows: Step 1: The interested applicant should visit (during office hours) the districtlevel office of the Handloom and Textile Department. and request a hard copy of the prescribed format of the application form from the staff exclusively entrusted to issue and collect filledin applications.
Step 2: In the application form, fill in all the mandatory fields, and attach copies of all the mandatory documents (selfattest, if required).
Step 3: Submit the duly filled and signed application form along with the documents to the districtlevel office of the Handloom and Textile Department.
Step 4: Request a receipt or acknowledgment from the concerned authority to whom the application has been submitted. Ensure that the receipt contains essential details such as the date and time of submission, and a unique identification number (if applicable). For more information, please refer to: Guidelines: https://www.karnatakadht.org/english/handlooms-schemes.php Tags associated with the scheme include: Handloom, Skill Development, Subsidy, Weaver.