The name of this welfare scheme is PM Vishwakarma. It is also known as PMV. PM Vishwakarma is a Central Sector Scheme launched by Ministry of Micro, Small and Medium Enterprises to provide holistic and end-to-end support to artisans and craftspeople through access to collateral free credit, skill training, modern tools, incentive for digital transactions and market linkage support. The scheme will initially be implemented for five years up to 2027-28.
&gt; Objectives


   1. To enable the recognition of artisans and craftspeople as Vishwakarma making them eligible to avail all the benefits under the Scheme.
   1. To provide skill upgradation to hone their skills and make relevant and suitable training opportunities available to them.
   1. To provide support for better and modern tools to enhance their capability, productivity, and quality of products.
   1. To provide the intended beneficiaries easy access to collateral-free credit and reduce the cost of credit by providing interest subvention.
   1. To provide incentives for digital transactions to encourage the digital empowerment of these Vishwakarmas.
   1. To provide a platform for brand promotion and market linkages to help them access new opportunities for growth.

&gt; Implementing Agency


  - The scheme is conjointly implemented by the following Ministries/Departments:
  - Ministry of Micro, Small and Medium Enterprises (MoMSME).
  - Ministry of Skill Development and Entrepreneurship (MSDE).
  - Department of Financial Services (DFS), Ministry of Finance (MoF). The scheme targets beneficiaries such as Artists, Individual. Additionally, the nodal ministry is Ministry Of Micro, Small and Medium Enterprises.

The scheme provides the following benefits: Benefits

   Recognition: Recognition as Vishwakarma through Certificate and ID Card   Skilling:
      Skill Verification followed by 57 days (40 hours) of Basic Training
      Interested candidates can also enrol for 15 days (120 hours) of Advanced Training
      Training Stipend: ₹ 500 per day

   Toolkit Incentive: ₹ 15,000 grant   Credit Support:
      Collateralfree Enterprise Development Loans: ₹ 1,00,000 (First Tranche for 18 months repayment) &amp;amp;amp; ₹ 2,00,000 (Second Tranche for 30 months repayment)
      Concessional Rate of Interest: 5% to be charged from the beneficiary with an Interest Subvention cap of 8% to be paid by MoMSME
      Credit Guarantee fees to be borne by GoI

   Incentive for Digital Transaction: ₹ 1 per transaction for a maximum of up to 100 transactions (monthly)   Marketing Support: The National Committee for Marketing (NCM) will provide services such as Quality Certification, Branding and Promotion, ecommerce Linkage, Trade Fair Advertising, Publicity and Other Marketing Activities.
&gt; NOTE: Notification to beneficiaries on disbursement of incentives will be done through SMS.

Eligibility criteria include: The applicant should be an artisan or craftsperson working with hands and tools.
   The applicant should be engaged in an unorganized sector on a selfemployment basis.
   The applicant should be engaged in one of the 18 familybased traditional trades mentioned in the scheme.
   On the date of registration for the scheme, the minimum age of the applicant should be 18 years.
   The applicant should be engaged in the concerned trade on the date of registration.
   The applicant should not have availed loans under similar creditbased schemes of the Central Government or State Government for selfemployment/ business development, e.g. PMEGP, PM SVANidhi, Mudra, in the past 5 years.
   The registration and benefits under the Scheme shall be restricted to one member of the family. The application process is as follows: (i) The eligible beneficiaries are required to get themselves enrolled through nearest CSC in their area.
(ii) The beneficiary can apply either on their own or with the help of the CSCs through Village Level Entrepreneurs (VLEs) or Enumerators.
> Registration:

Step 1: Visit the Official Portal of &quot;PM Vishwakarma&quot; and on the top right corner, click &quot;Login&quot;. Then click &quot;CSC Register Artisans&quot;.
 You will be taken to the Registration.
Step 2: On the &quot;Registration Now&quot; Page, answer the Set of Questions as Yes/No, and click &quot;Continue&quot;. On the &quot;Aadhaar Verification&quot; Page, enter the 6digit OTP received on your Aadhaarlinked Mobile Number. Click &quot;Continue&quot;. On the next page, enter your Aadhaar Number and the Aadhaar Registered Mobile Number. Click &quot;Continue&quot;.
> Application:

Step 1: Visit your nearest CSC and complete the Biometric Verification Process.
Step 2: In the Online Application Form, fill in all the mandatory details, and click &quot;Submit&quot;. In the next screen, note down the &quot;Application Number&quot; for future reference. Click &quot;Done&quot;.
> Verification:

Stage 1: Verification of Eligibility at Gram Panchayat or ULB level.
Stage 2: Vetting and Recommendation of the Applications by the District Implementation Committee.
Stage 3: The Screening Committee will accord final approval of the beneficiaries for registration after satisfying itself as to their eligibility.
> Benefit Disbursal:

After a successful threestep verification, the artisans and craftspeople will formally register under this Scheme as Vishwakarmas. They will receive a Digital ID, a PM Vishwakarma Digital Certificate and a PM Vishwakarma ID Card. The certificate will enable the applicants’ recognition as a Vishwakarma, making them eligible to avail of all the benefits under the Scheme. For more information, please refer to: Guidelines: https://pmvishwakarma.gov.in/FileHandling/GetPdf/MiscFiles%5Ceng_v28.0_PM_Vishwakarma_Guidelines_final.pdf FAQ: https://pmvishwakarma.gov.in/Home/FAQ Official Website: https://pmvishwakarma.gov.in/ Tags associated with the scheme include: Artisans, Craftspeople, Skill Upgradation, Toolkit Incentive.