The name of this welfare scheme is Mukhyamantri Samajik Sahayata Prakalpa - Persons with Disabilities. It is also known as MSSP-PWS. The scheme “Mukhyamantri Samajik Sahayata Prakalpa - Persons with Disabilities&quot; was launched by the Directorate of Social Welfare and Social Education, Government of Tripura to provide financial assistance to Persons with Disabilities in the form of a monthly pension of ₹2,000/-. The scheme targets beneficiaries such as Individual. It is specifically implemented in Tripura. Additionally, the nodal department is Directorate Of Social Welfare & Social Education.

The scheme provides the following benefits: A pension amount of ₹2000/per month, transferred directly to the bank account of the applicant.
NOTE: The list of beneficiaries will be made available on the official website of the Social Welfare &amp; Social Education Department, Govt. of Tripura.

Eligibility criteria include: The applicant should be a resident of Tripura.
The applicant should be a Person with Disability.
The annual income of the family of the applicant should not exceed ₹1,00,000/The age of the applicant should be 10 years and above.
If the family has children in the age group of 6 to 14 years, those children must be enrolled in a school recognized by the Government of Tripura. 
The disability of the applicant should be one of the following:

Blindness, LowVision, Leprosycured persons, Hearing Impairment (deaf &amp; Hard of hearing), Locomotor Disability, Dwarfism, Intellectual Disability, Mental Illness, Autism Spectrum Disorder, Cerebral Palsy, Muscular Dystrophy, Chronic Neurological Condition, Specific Learning Disabilities, Multiple Sclerosis, Speech and Language disability, Thalassemia, Hemophilia, Sickle Cell Disease, Multiple Disabilities including deafblindness, Acid attack Victim, Parkinson&#39;s Disease.


NOTE: The assistance under this scheme will be stopped immediately in the following cases:

Death of Beneficiary.
Fulfillment of any exclusion criteria during the lifetime of a beneficiary, such as


Remarriage of a widow.
A member of the family of the beneficiary getting a Government Job.
The annual family income of the beneficiary exceeds ₹1,00,000/, etc. The application process is as follows: Step 1: The applicant should visit the Office of the Child Development Project Officer, and request a hard copy of the prescribed format of the application form free of cost. 
OR
The interested applicant should take print of the prescribed format of the application form.
Step 2: In the application form, fill in all the mandatory fields (signed across, if required), and attach copies of all the mandatory documents (selfattest, if required).
Step 3: Submit the duly filled and signed application form along with the documents to the CDPO Office under which the project his/her residence is located. 
Step 4: Request a receipt or acknowledgement from the concerned authority to whom the application has been submitted. Ensure that the receipt contains essential details such as the date and time of submission, and a unique identification number (if applicable). For more information, please refer to: Guidelines: https://socialwelfare.tripura.gov.in/sites/default/files/Notification%20for%20Mukhyamantri%20Samajik%20Sahayata%20Prakalpa.pdf Application Form: https://socialwelfare.tripura.gov.in/sites/default/files/Mukhyamantri%20Samajik%20Sahayata%20Prakalpa%20%28Appendix%20I-VII%29.pdf Tags associated with the scheme include: Disability, Financial Assistance, Pension, PwD, Social Welfare.