The name of this welfare scheme is Chief Minister Career Advancement in Biotechnology . It is also known as CM-CAB. The programme “Chief Minister’s Career Advancement in Biotechnology (CM-CAB)” aims at providing opportunities to Young Faculty and Scientists in Biotechnology to have national and/or international collaborative research training and exposure to advanced techniques and technologies in emerging fields of biotechnology. The fellowship is envisaged to help the candidate further his/her research capability and expertise to contribute to higher education with a global perspective as well as to forge long-term relationships with distinguished experts in these fields.
&gt; Fellowship Duration:

The duration of the fellowship will be 3-6 months, where the host institution is from abroad. In the cases where the host institution is within India, the fellowship will be for 3-12 months.
&gt; Host Institution:

The applicant should produce along with the application a consent letter from a Host faculty/ scientist that details his/her willingness to host the fellow in their institute or laboratory. The consent letter should clearly mention that the host faculty/scientist will extend the facilities to the fellow to carry out the proposed work.
&gt; Terms and conditions of the Fellowship:


  - A progress report has to be submitted to the Kerala State Council for Science, Technology and Environment/Kerala Bio-Technology Commission (KSCSTE/KBC) every six months with the remarks of the Host faculty/scientist where they are undertaking research.
  - On completion of the tenure of the CM-CAB fellowship, the fellow must submit a detailed consolidated report of research work done during the entire period of fellowship and audited statements of expenditure to the KSCSTE/KBC.
  - No fellow shall discontinue his/her CM-CAB fellowship without prior approval of KSCSTE/KBC. In case he/she wishes to discontinue the fellowship prior to completion of the tenure, he/she must submit the resignation to the KSCSTE/KBC through the Mentor Scientist and the Head of the Institution indicating specific reasons for not continuing the fellowship. In such cases, the Fellow shall be required to refund the whole of the expenditure incurred on him/her during the fellowship period to KSCSTE-KBC
  - The CM-CAB fellow shall inform KSCSTE/KBC about any achievements, patents, and submission/publication of any research paper arising out of the research work done during the tenure of the PD fellowship.
  - Due acknowledgment of KSCSTE/KBC shall be given in all the publications/patents emanating from the research work. The scheme targets beneficiaries such as Individual. It is specifically implemented in Kerala. The implementing agency is Kerala Biotechnology Commission, KSCSTE. Additionally, the nodal department is Science and Technology Department.

The scheme provides the following benefits: Fellowship of USD 1500 per month (in equivalent Indian Currency) in cases where the host institution is outside India.
   The fellowship will be ₹50,000/per month if the host institution is within India.
   A contingency grant to meet the expenses for local travel, VISA fees, insurance, etc. will also be paid as per actuals subjected to a ceiling of ₹50,000/.

Eligibility criteria include: The fellowship is offered to a scientist/faculty who is a permanent employee of an academic/research institute in Kerala State.
   The candidates must be officially sponsored by their employer/head of the institution with the commitment to depute them for research/training under CMCAB.
   The applicant should possess a Ph.D. degree in biotechnologyrelated subjects.
   The applicant should have a proven record of independent research work evidenced by publications in peerreviewed, indexed journals and patents.
   Age Limit – 37 years, with 5 years relaxation in the case of SC/ST and/or Women Candidates.

Note: The pay and allowances during the fellowship period will have to be paid by the institution to the candidate. The application process is as follows: Step 01: The applications in the prescribed format are to be submitted as and when the programme is advertised on the KSCSTE website.
Step 02: The applications will be screened for eligibility, peerreviewed, and further shortlisted. The shortlisted candidates will have to appear for a discussion with the Committee of experts nominated by the Commission and the final shortlisting shall be based on the following criteria:
Scientific merit of the proposal
Experience of the applicant
Publications
Infrastructure of the Host Institute
Step 03: Selected candidates have to execute an agreement accepting the terms and conditions of the programme and must join the Host Institution within three months’ time.
Contact Details:
The Scientistincharge,
Kerala BioTechnology Commission, Kerala State Council for Science, Technology and Environment (KSCSTE), Sasthra Bhavan, Pattom, Thiruvananthapuram – 695 004
Phone: (0471) 2548406, 2548254
Email: kbc.kscste@kerala.gov.in For more information, please refer to: Official Website: https://kscste.kerala.gov.in/chief-ministers-career-advancement-in-biotechnology-cm-cab/ Guideline: https://kscste.kerala.gov.in/wp-content/uploads/2019/06/CM_CAB_Guidelines.pdf Tags associated with the scheme include: Biotechnology, CM-CAB, Fellowship, International Collaboration, National Collaboration, Research, Scientist, Young Faculty.