The name of this welfare scheme is Stipend Scheme For Poultry Farming Training For Weaker Section. It is also known as SSPFTWS. The scheme “Stipend Scheme for Poultry Farming Training for Weaker Section” was launched by the Department of Agriculture, Farmers Welfare &amp;amp; Co-operation, Government of Gujarat to raise the income of poultry farmers by scientific poultry farming training. Under this scheme, the beneficiary will be given a maximum ₹2000 (direct in bank account) stipend for six days of training and a poultry training certificate after completion of training. The scheme targets beneficiaries such as Individual. It is specifically implemented in Gujarat. The implementing agency is Intensive Poultry Development Project Office, District Poultry Extension Centre. Additionally, the nodal department is Agriculture, Farmers Welfare and Cooperation Department.

The scheme provides the following benefits: The beneficiary will be given maximum ₹2000 (direct in bank account) stipend for six days training. (Considering ₹300/per day, ₹1800/for 6 days as daily allowance and ₹200/as to &amp;amp; fro transport fare with the maximum total stipend ₹2000/)
   Beneficiary will be given poultry training certificate after completion of training.

Eligibility criteria include: The benefits of this scheme will only be given to the adult of economically weaker sections people of the society of Gujarat State.
   The beneficiary will have to provide income proof along with the application.
   Females and beneficiaries Below Poverty Line will be given priority. The application process is as follows: Step 01: The beneficiary has to apply online at IKhedut Portal. https://ikhedut.gujarat.gov.in/iKhedutPublicScheme/Public/frmPublicANH2SchemeApplicaiton.aspx
Step 02: Click on the &amp;quot;Apply New&amp;quot; button and submit a new application.
Step 03: Click on the &amp;quot;Update Application&amp;quot; button to add corrections to the application.
Step 04: Once the application is done, confirm it. The application must be confirmed within seven days from the date of saving the online application.
Step 05: The application must be signed and submitted along with the supporting documents to the office address mentioned on the application” or “Application confirmed within seven days from the date of saving the online application Scanned copy of the application and other documents can be uploaded after confirming the application
Step 06: Take a printout of the confirmed application.
Note 01: It is mandatory to take a printout of the application (only applying online will not count as an application).
Note 02: Take a printout of the online application and submit it along with necessary documents to the office/office address mentioned on the application or after applying online on the IKhedut Portal, take a printout of the application and scan it with signature/thumbprint and &amp;quot;Signed Application Print&amp;quot; on the portal. A copy can be uploaded by clicking on Upload&amp;quot; menu. &amp;quot;Other Document Upload&amp;quot; wherever applicable.
Note 03: The application will be inwardly taken online by the concerned officer/office only if the correct and sufficient documents are uploaded along with the application signed/fingerprinted by the beneficiary.
Note 04: If wrong/incomplete documents are uploaded online by the beneficiary, such application will not be inwarded online. In such circumstances, the beneficiary has to submit the remaining/correct documents to the concerned office within seven days of application.
Note 05: Scanned copy uploaded in PDF format should not exceed 200 KB in size. Step 01: The applicant needs to visit the nearest Intensive Poultry Development Project Office or District Poultry Extension Centre and collect the application form.
Step 02: Fill in all the mandatory fields of the application form, attach all the (selfattested) required documents, and submit it to the designated receiving authority.
Step 03: After successful verification, the applicant can avail the benefit of the scheme. For more information, please refer to: Guideline: https://doah.gujarat.gov.in/Images/animalhusbandary/pdf/2-po-eng-1818.pdf Website: https://doah.gujarat.gov.in/subsidy-schemes-poultry.htm Tags associated with the scheme include: Cash Assistance, Poultry Farming, Stipend, Training, Weaker Section.