The name of this welfare scheme is SITARE-Gandhian Young Technological Innovation Award Grant. It is also known as SITARE-GYTI. “Students Innovations for Translation &amp;amp; Advancement of Research Explorations (SITARE)” Scheme is started by the Biotechnology Industry Research Assistance Council (BIRAC) for supporting innovative student projects in the area of biotechnology. The scheme’s mandate is to promote and encourage young students for embracing translational research to develop innovative products and technologies addressing unmet needs. The scheme has two components: SITARE-Gandhian Young Technological Innovation Award Grant (SITARE-GYTI) and SITARE-Appreciation Grant. 
SITARE-Gandhian Young Technological Innovation Award Grant (SITARE-GYTI): 
Under the SITARE-GYTI scheme component, 15 innovative student projects will receive funding support of up to INR 15 lakhs each. The scheme encourages postgraduate and doctoral students to undertake projects with commercial potential leading to the creation of biotech startups. The fund recipients are recognized as BIRAC’s SITARE-GYTI beneficiaries. “SITARE-GYTI” Award Grant is not a usual research fellowship.
&gt; Nature of Proposals supported:


  - Translational research proposals to develop innovative products and technologies with the potential to address unmet needs.
  - The work supported through the SITARE-GYTI Award Grant is expected to lead to the creation of biotech startups. Hence, only proposals with the potential to commercialize innovative products and technologies will be considered for support.

&gt; Areas covered:


  - SITARE-GYTI award grant proposals can be submitted in any domain including Healthcare, Lifesciences, Diagnostics, Medical Devices, Drugs, Vaccines, Drug Formulations and delivery systems, Industrial Biotechnology, Bioinformatics, Agriculture, Secondary agriculture, Waste Management, Sanitation, Clean Energy and Artificial Intelligence/IoT with application in any of these areas.
  - BIRAC encourages interdisciplinary proposals from any stream that can help the conversion of innovative ideas into biotech products and technologies in any of the above fields.

&gt; Duration of project:


  - The funding is provided for a period of up to 24 months. The project is implemented in a milestone-based manner.
  - In case the grant award duration extends beyond the degree programme, the grantee is encouraged to incubate in any of the bio incubators for completing the SITARE-GYTI award grant mandate.

&gt; Extension:

Extension of grant award duration is discouraged. Request for extension of milestone/project can be considered (without any additional financial implications) only in selected cases based on the recommendation of the SITARE-GYTI Review Committee conducted by SITARE Partner/BIRAC. However, such a request with proper justification must reach SITARE Partner/BIRAC well before the scheduled date of completion of the grant award period. The scheme targets beneficiaries such as Individual. The implementing agency is Biotechnology Industry Research Assistance Council. Additionally, the nodal ministry is Ministry Of Science And Technology and the nodal department is Department Of Biotechnology.

The scheme provides the following benefits: Support provided to beneficiaries under the scheme:

   The funding support under SITARE is in the form of grantinaid.
   The extent of funding is up to INR 15 lakhs.
   The fund allocation is milestonebased and released in installments of up to INR 5 lakhs each based on the review of the milestone achieved.
   SITARE Partner and BIRAC provide continuous mentoring support to the fund recipients, including but not limited to the following:


  Technical Mentoring
  IP Support
  Legal Support
  Networking and Outreach
  Trainings
  Regulatory Advice
  Business Mentoring
  Fundraising

Note: The award grant is nontransferable.
Utilization of Grant Money:

   Development of Prototype (including outsourcing activity)Up to 30%   Travel: Up to 15%   Incubator Rentals: Up to 15%   Manpower: Up to 15% (may be drawn as salary by the Project Investigator (SITAREGYTI Fund recipient) during incubation or may be paid to another team member for technical assistance anytime during the project).   The fund recipient shall not be eligible to draw any manpower cost while pursuing a degree programme.
   Consumables: Up to 20%   Training and conferences: Up to 10%   Contingency: 5%

Eligibility criteria include: An Indian student pursuing a Ph.D/Masters in any discipline is eligible to apply for this award grant.   The student should have a valid ID issued by the Institution/University.
   A No Objection Certificate (NoC), as per the prescribed format needs to be submitted along with the application.
   A student can receive a SITAREGYTI Award Grant only once.
   The scheme encourages postgraduate and doctoral students to undertake projects with commercial potential leading to the creation of biotech startups.

Exceptions for exceptional talent: Meritorious candidature outside the above eligibility criteria may be considered for SITARE with the approval of BIRAC’s competent authority. The application process is as follows: &gt; Application process:

•	Proposals shall be submitted online only during an active Call for Proposals.
•	Frequency of Call: Once a year
•	Month of announcement: August/September
•	Call Duration: The call is typically open for 4560 days
The process for submitting the proposals online is detailed below:
Step 01: Log on to the BIRAC websitewww.birac.nic.in
Step 02: If you are a registered user, login using the credentials, else you need to register yourself as an individual by clicking on ‘New User Registration’.
Step 03: In case of new user registration, a computergenerated password will be sent to the email provided at the time of registration. The password can be changed later.
Step 04: Once you login, you will be navigated to the page displaying the SITARE link.
Step 05: Click on the SITAREGYTI link under Programmes and the active call will be highlighted. 
Step 06: Click on the active call against which you wish to submit the proposal.
&gt; Selection Process:

The applications received will be subjected to a basic eligibility check. Stagewise screening of applications will be done by relevant Committees with domain experts.

   Initial Stage: At this stage, proposals will be examined for preliminary technical strength and suitability of translational research mandate.
   Shortlisting Stage: This stage will have a review of applications by a team of experts based on online review comments and a specific project/work plan.
   Recommendation Stage: At this stage, final shortlisted candidates will be called for presentation before an Expert Panel.
Class II Rail fare can be reimbursed to the invited outstation students.
&gt; Evaluation Criteria:

The evaluation of proposals received will include the following criteria at each step of selection:
•	Novelty
•	Technical Rigor
•	Competence of Student
•	Societal/Commercial Value
•	Frugality For more information, please refer to: Guidelines: https://birac.nic.in/webcontent/1584008982_SITARE_Scheme_Guidelines.pdf Official Website: https://birac.nic.in/desc_new.php?id=581 Scheme Details: https://www.indiascienceandtechnology.gov.in/programme-schemes/human-resource-and-development/students-innovations-advancement-research-explorations-sitare Tags associated with the scheme include: GYTI, Innovation, SITARE, Student, Translational Research.