The name of this welfare scheme is Ex-Gratia Grant for Disability to Defence Forces Personnel. It is also known as E-GGDDFP. The scheme &amp;quot;Ex-Gratia Grant for Disability to Defence Forces Personnel&amp;quot; is implemented by the Sainik and Ardh Sainik Welfare Department, Government of Haryana. Under the scheme, ex-gratia grant will be given to those personnel of the Defence Forces hailing from Haryana who get disabled for life and are boarded out of service due to disability declared as in war/operation, in operational area, terrorist activities, and natural calamities, etc. The grant is given depending on the percentage of disability suffered in the first instance during life. The scheme targets beneficiaries such as Individual. It is specifically implemented in Haryana. The implementing agency is Sainik And Ardh Sainik Welfare Department, Government Of Haryana. Additionally, the nodal department is Sainik and Ardh Sainik Welfare Department.

The scheme provides the following benefits: Exgratia grant to disabled defence force personnel as per their percentage of disability:

  Disability 75% and above:  ₹35,00,000/Disability 50% to 74%:  ₹25,00,000/Disability 25% to 49%:  ₹15,00,000/Note 1: The enhanced exgratia amount applies to those disabled on or after 19th February Note 2: The exgratia grant is given to disabled Defence Forces personnel of all ranks.

Eligibility criteria include: The applicant should be a permanent resident of Haryana.
   The applicant should be a disabled Defence Forces Personnel (Army, Navy, or Air Force) who became permanently disabled due to war, operational areas, terrorist activities, natural calamities, etc.
   The applicant should have been discharged from Defence Forces service due to the disability.
   The disability should be a permanent percentage of disability as determined by the Initial Medical Board.
   The applicant should apply within three years of the disability; otherwise, the application will be considered timebarred. The application process is as follows: &gt; Registration Process on AntyodayaSARAL Portal:

Step 1: The eligible applicant may apply online through the Official PortalAntyodayaSARAL Portal. 
Step 2: If the applicant is not registered on the portal, he/she gets registered there. 
Step 3: For registration, click “New User” under ‘Sign In Here’ and fill in all the mandatory details i.e. Name, Email ID, Mobile Number, Password &amp;amp; State. Click on ‘Submit’.
Step 4: Verify your mobile number and email ID through the received OTP and complete the registration process.
&gt; Login to apply for the scheme:

Step 1: To avail the benefits of the scheme, visit the Official AntyodayaSARAL Portal and log in through the email ID used while registering.
Step 2: Enter Password &amp;amp; Captcha and click on ‘Login’.
Step 3: After successful login, click on ‘Apply for Services’ and then ‘View all Available Services’
Step 4: Now, you can search for the scheme and click on the scheme to go ahead and fill out the application form.
Step 5: Enter your Parivar Pehchan Patra number Family ID and click on “Click here to Fetch Family Data” which displays the family members registered under the given Family ID.
Step 6: Select the beneficiary/applicant name and enter the OTP that is being sent to the selected family member for verification. Click on “Click to Verify”
Step 7: Fill in all the mandatory details and upload all the mandatory documents.
Step 8: Preview the application form and click on ‘Submit’.
&gt; Tracking of Application:

Applicants can track their applications through the Official AntyodayaSARAL Portal by entering their Department Name, Scheme Name, and Application Reference ID. For more information, please refer to: Scheme Details: https://kms.saralharyana.nic.in/ViewDoc?Id=eI3amz%2fRZG99NHpizgfuSg%3d%3d Notification: https://csharyana.gov.in/WriteReadData/Policies/Defence%20III/2531.pdf Antyodaya-SARAL Portal: https://saralharyana.gov.in/ Tags associated with the scheme include: Defence Forces Personnel, Disability, Ex-Gratia, Grant, PwD, Sainik.