The name of this welfare scheme is Pradhan Mantri Dakshta Aur Kushalta Sampann Hitgrahi (PM-DAKSH). It is also known as PM-DAKSH. The &amp;quot;Pradhan Mantri Dakshta Aur Kushalta Sampann Hitgrahi&amp;quot; (PM-DAKSH) scheme, launched by the Ministry of Social Justice &amp;amp; Empowerment, Government of India in 2020-21, is designed to uplift the marginalized sections of society by offering skill development programs. It targets SCs, OBCs, EWS, DNTs, and Safai Mitras, providing upskilling, reskilling, short-term training, and entrepreneurial development courses. The scheme aims to empower these groups by boosting their skills to improve their employability and income prospects. Training is aligned with the National Skill Qualification Framework (NSQF), and post-training support is provided for employment or self-employment opportunities. The scheme targets beneficiaries such as Individual. The implementing agency is Department Of Social Justice & Empowerment With The Help Of Project Management Unit. Additionally, the nodal ministry is Ministry Of Social Justice and Empowerment and the nodal department is Department of Social Justice & Empowerment.

The scheme provides the following benefits: ##### Key benefits:

  Training free of cost for the trainees, 100% grants by Government.
  Stipend will be given to trainees during the period of training.
  Trained candidates will be provided certification after successful completion of training and assessment.
  Trained candidates will be provided placement after assessment and certification.

##### Category of Skilling Programmes:
##### Upskilling/Reskilling under Recognition of Prior Learning (RPL):

  Target Group: Upskilling / Reskilling under Recognition of Prior Learning (RPL) will only be applicable to SafaiMitras including waster pickers who constitute the bottom of the pyramid.  Curriculum: In respect of Safai Mitras including waste pickers, the curriculum will include the programmes on safe &amp;amp; healthy sanitation practices, occupational practices as per relevant and approved Qualification Packs (QPs). Certification would be aligned with the standard process.  Period of Training: The duration of the training programmes will be of approximately 35 hours keeping in mind the occupational hours of the trainees.  Training Cost: The training cost will be limited to extent of Common Cost Norms (CCN) issued by Ministry of Skill Development and Entrepreneurship (MSDE) as applicable from time to time.  Other Expenses: As the trainees are already employed, they will be paid @₹500/per person to Safai Mitras including Waste Pickers in the form of stipend, for duration of training of Upskilling and Reskilling under RPL, towards compensation of their wage loss, during the period of training.
##### ShortTerm Courses (focus on wage/selfemployment):

  Target Group: Most disempowered groups belonging to SC/OBC/EWS/DNT and Sanitation Workers including Waste Pickers and their dependents having aspirations to be employed in sectors having good demand in job market with suitable wage.  Curriculum: The Curriculum of the training programmes will be as per National Skill Qualification Framework (NSQF)/National Occupational Standard (NOS), issued by Ministry of Skill Development and Entrepreneurship, Government of India in various job roles with focus on wage and selfemployment opportunities such as selfemployed tailors training, furniture making, food processing, carpet weaving, beautician workers, leather work, latex harvesting, tyre fitting along with financial and digital literacy, etc. Training to be delivered through accredited and affiliated training centres.  Period of Training: The duration of the training programmes will be less than 1200 hours, as stipulated in National Occupational Standards (NOS) and Qualification Packs (QPs).  Training Cost: The training cost will be as per Common Cost Norms for NSQF job roles or as stipulated by concerned board as applicable and as amended from time to time.  Other Expenses:


   For nonresidential training programmes, the trainees will be paid stipend @ ₹1,500/per month for SC candidates, ₹1,000/per month to OBCs/EWSs/DNTs and ₹1,500/per month to Sanitation Workers including waste pickers and their dependents.   For residential training programmes, wherever necessary, the trainees will be provided boarding and lodging and expenses compensated within CCN, for complete duration of the training programmes. No stipend will be separately payable except in case of Safai Mitras, Waste Pickers &amp;amp; their dependents who will be paid ₹500/per month.
##### Entrepreneurial Development Programmes (EDP):

  Implementing Agency: Ministry will approach National Institute for Entrepreneurship and Small Business Development (NIESBUD) or any other organisation viz Indian Institute of Entrepreneurship (IIE) under Ministry of Skill Development &amp;amp; Entrepreneurship for conducting EDP training.

Eligibility criteria include: Applicant must be an Indian national with valid proof of nationality.
Applicant must be aged between 18 and 45 years.
Applicant must belong to one of the following groups: 

   Scheduled Castes (SC); 
   Other Backward Classes (OBC);
   Economically Weaker Sections (EWS); 
   Denotified &amp;amp; Nomadic Tribes (DNT0, or 
   Safai Mitras (including Waste Pickers).

Applicant from OBC or EWS must have an annual family income below ₹3,00,000/.
Applicant from SC, DNT, or Safai Mitras (including Waste Pickers) has no income limit.
Applicant must possess a valid Aadhaar card (exemption for the candidates of such States which have not implemented Aadhaar completely).
Applicant must have an Aadhaarlinked bank account.
Applicant must register on the Skill India Digital Hub (SIDH).
&gt; Target Groups:


  Upskilling/Reskilling under Recognition of Prior Learning (RPL): Upskilling / Reskilling under Recognition of Prior Learning (RPL) will only be applicable to Safai Mitras including waster pickers who constitute the bottom of the pyramid.  ShortTerm Courses (focus on wage/selfemployment): Most disempowered groups belonging to SC/OBC/EWS/DNT and Sanitation Workers including Waste Pickers and their dependents having aspirations to be employed in sectors having good demand in job market with suitable wage.  Entrepreneurial Development Programmes(EDP): SCs, EWSs, OBCs and DNTs youth who are having an entrepreneurial bent of mind.
&gt; Note:


  Attendance:


   Compulsory AEBASbased attendance of assessors and candidates during assessment.
   More than 70% of biometric attendance is required for each candidate to appear in the assessment in all types of training.


  On the Job Training (OJT): 


   The establishments offering OJT will give a certificate at the end of OJT indicating the duration and attendance of the candidate.
   It will be the responsibility of the Training Provider to ensure the attendance of the candidates.
   The final assessment of the candidates will be carried out after completion of OJT, and it shall be the responsibility of the training provider to ensure the presence of all eligible candidates for the assessment after completion of OJT. 
   In districts where facilities for OJT are not available, special exemptions will be given by PAC. In these districts, candidates may carry out project work. The application process is as follows: Step 1:  Visit the website of Skill India Digital Hub (SIDH). On topright side, click on the &amp;quot;Register&amp;quot; button. 
Step 2: Choose &amp;quot;Learner/Participant&amp;quot; in next page. 
Step 3: Enter your mobile number. Click on &amp;quot;Continue&amp;quot;. 
Step 4: Validate the OTP and set a password.
Step 5: After login, validate your profile through eKYC to complete the registration process. For more information, please refer to: Scheme Guidelines: https://socialjustice.gov.in/public/ckeditor/upload/44071717524542.pdf Tags associated with the scheme include: Economically Weaker Section, Employment, Other Backward Class, Scheduled Caste, Skill, Stipend, Training.