The name of this welfare scheme is Child Adoption - Tamil Nadu. It is also known as CATN. The scheme &quot;Child Adoption - Tamil Nadu&quot; was launched by the Social Welfare and Women Empowerment Department, Government of Tamil Nadu. The scheme aims to provide a family for orphaned, abandoned, destitute and neglected children. According to Central Adoption Resource Authority (CARA), “adoption is a process by which a child who is abandoned / separated from biological parents, becomes the legitimate child of a new set of parents referred to as adoptive parents, with all the rights, privileges and responsibilities that are attached to this relationship”. The scheme targets beneficiaries such as Family. It is specifically implemented in Tamil Nadu. Additionally, the nodal department is Department of Social Welfare and Women Empowerment.

The scheme provides the following benefits: Accommodation, food, and health care to the babies till they are given in adoption.
A family to the destitute child and a child to childless parents.

> Special concessions are given to female government employees to adopt children:


Special adoption leave of 270 days is extended to female government servants of the state government who adopt a child below one year. The leave is eligible only from the date of legalization of adoption.

Eligibility criteria include: The parents must have at least two years of a stable marital relationship.
The single prospective adoptive parents should be between 3055 years of age. 
An unmarried/single male persons are not eligible to adopt a girl child.
The parents should have adequate financial resources to upbring the child.
Age Criteria:



  For a child up to 4 years old:


   Maximum composite age of the Prospective Adoptive Parents: 90 years.
   For a single Prospective Adoptive Parent: Minimum age 25 years, maximum age 45 years.


  For a child above 4 years up to 8 years old:


   Maximum composite age of the Prospective Adoptive Parents: 100 years.
   For a single Prospective Adoptive Parent: Minimum age 25 years, maximum age 50 years.


 For a child above 8 years up to 18 years old:


Maximum composite age of the Prospective Adoptive Parents: 110 years.
For a single Prospective Adoptive Parent: Minimum age 25 years, maximum age 55 years. The application process is as follows: Step 1: The interested applicant should visit (during office hours) the office State Adoption Resource Agency/Directorate of Social Defence/Concerned Probation Officer and request a hard copy of the prescribed format of the application form from the concerned staff.
Step 2: In the application form, fill in all the mandatory fields, paste the passportsized photograph (signed across, if required), and attach copies of all the mandatory documents (selfattest, if required).
Step 3: Submit the duly filled and signed application form along with the documents to the State Adoption Resource Agency/Directorate of Social Defence/Concerned Probation Officer. 
Step 4: Request a receipt or acknowledgment from the concerned authority to whom the application has been submitted. Ensure that the receipt contains essential details such as the date and time of submission, and a unique identification number (if applicable). For more information, please refer to: Citizen's Charter (2022): https://cms.tn.gov.in/sites/default/files/documents/swwe_e_cc_2022_23.pdf Tags associated with the scheme include: Accommodation, Adoption, Child, NGO, Parents.