The name of this welfare scheme is Scheme for Establishment of Hi-Tech and Mini Dairy Units under Mukhya Mantri Antyodaya Parivaar Utthan Yojana. It is also known as SEH-TMDUMMAPUY. The scheme “Scheme for Establishment of Hi-Tech and Mini Dairy Units under Mukhya Mantri Antyodaya Parivaar Utthan Yojana (MMAPUY)” is implemented by the Department of Animal Husbandry &amp;amp; Dairying, Government of Haryana. Under this scheme, a resident of Haryana who is between 18 and 60 years of age can avail a 25% subsidy on the cost of two milch animals. The subsidy can be availed as a loan for the purchase of these milch animals by the beneficiary for the establishment of dairy units with two milch animals. The scheme targets beneficiaries such as Individual. It is specifically implemented in Haryana. The implementing agency is Department Of Animal Husbandry & Dairying, Government Of Haryana. Additionally, the nodal department is Animal Husbandry & Dairying Department.

The scheme provides the following benefits: > Financial Assistance under the Scheme:

Dairy units of 2 milch animals:

  25 % subsidy on the cost of milch animals which has been availed as a loan for the purchase of these milch animals by the beneficiary for the establishment of dairy units of 2 milch animals;

> Financial Assistance for Insurance under the Scheme:


Insurance assistance will be provided as per the available departmental scheme if operational during the year; otherwise, the beneficiaries will have to arrange for insurance of animals and shall pay the insurance premium.

Eligibility criteria include: The applicant should be of 18 to 60 years of age and a resident of Haryana.
   The applicant must be unemployed.
   There would be no mandatory educational qualifications or training requirements.
   The applicant can apply for a dairy unit of 2 Milch animals only.
   The applicant should have space/shed for keeping milch animals.
   The applicant would have to submit a SelfDeclaration for being unemployed and for undertaking to abide by other conditions as required under the Scheme. The application process is as follows: Step 01: To avail the benefits of the scheme, applicants should visit the Deputy Director&amp;#39;s office in their district and collect the application form.
Step 02: Fill out the application form and attach all the relevant documents.
Step 03: Submit the completely filled application form and attached documents to the concerned official in the office.
Step 04: The Deputy Director of the concerned district will examine the applications on a firstcome, firstserved basis and process them accordingly. The applicant may submit the application through Common Service Centres, Antodaya Kendra, Atal Sewa Kendra, edisha Centres or any other such centre. For more information, please refer to: Official Website: https://pashudhanharyana.gov.in/schemes Guidelines (Page No. 6): https://pashudhanharyana.gov.in/sites/default/files/documents/Scheme%202023-24/HTDU%20Scheme.pdf Scheme Details: https://kms.saralharyana.nic.in/ViewDoc?Id=VH3243J3QbPO2kekVIdztw%3d%3d Antyodaya-SARAL Portal: https://saralharyana.gov.in/ Tags associated with the scheme include: Animal Husbandry, Financial Assistance, Hi-Tech, Milch Animal, Mini Dairy Unit, Subsidy.