The name of this welfare scheme is Sainik School Sujanpur Tihra Scholarship Scheme. It is also known as SSSTSS. The “Sainik School Sujanpur Tihra Scholarship Scheme” was started by the Department of Education, Himachal Pradesh. Under the scheme, a scholarship is given to the students of Himachal Pradesh studying at Sainik School Sujanpur Tihra. The Scholarship will be awarded on merit-cum-means basis to such students who are eligible for admission and who join the Sainik Schools based on a competitive entrance examination that may be held every year for this purpose. The scheme targets beneficiaries such as Individual. It is specifically implemented in Himachal Pradesh. The implementing agency is Department Of Education, Himachal Pradesh. Additionally, the nodal department is Education Department, Himachal Pradesh.

The scheme provides the following benefits: Under the scheme, the scholarship will be given to the eligible students at the rate of ₹18,000/per annum.
   The students will also be given Dietary Money @ ₹10/per day for 295 days.
   Clothing Allowance @ ₹1,500/per annum for the first year and ₹750/per annum for the subsequent years.

Eligibility criteria include: The students studying at Sainik School Sujanpur Tihra and Bonafide residents of Himachal Pradesh from Class VI to XII will be eligible to apply for the scholarship.

&gt; Conditions for the award of Renewal of Scholarships:

A scholarship once awarded to a student will continue to be awarded to him throughout this stay in the school, provided:The student makes satisfactory progress in his standard.
   The student is not reported adversely regarding discipline.
   No scholarship holder under this scheme draws a scholarship for financial assistance from any other source.
   If the student fails in any Class the scholarship will be suspended for that particular class.

&gt; Revision of Scholarships:

A scholarship once awarded will be tenable for the entire course of education and will not be subject to any revision for subsequent changes in income. The application process is as follows: The students applying for the scholarship for the first time must &amp;quot;Register&amp;quot; using the icon “New Registration” at the NSP Portal, providing accurate and correct information as per their documents.   Students will get their “Student Registration ID” after successfully registering.
   Through “Student Registration ID” students can log into the account using the “Fresh Application” icon at NSP Portal.
   The welcome page appeared After a successful login to the portal. When students click the “Application Form” icon, they will be directed to the application screen.
   Now, the students may fill out the complete application form and on clicking the “Final Submit” button, the application is finally submitted.
   On successful application submission, a systemgenerated registration number is sent to the students which can be used for future reference.
   The printed copy of the Online Scholarship Form (after successful online submission of form), along with all requisite documents, needs to be submitted by the student to his/her Head of the Institute, who will retain it in the institution.
   The Institution will forward the duly attested printed form (after successful online verification) along with the Verified Candidate List(s) (in the prescribed format) to this Directorate, for online verification &amp;amp; safekeeping.
   In case, the Head of the Institute receives any offline application form, he/she is directed to return the same to the concerned student, at his/her own level; &amp;amp; to direct the sender to fill the form online &amp;amp; submit the printed copy of the Online Application Form, afterward, through the same channel. For more information, please refer to: Guidelines: https://scholarships.gov.in/public/schemeGuidelines/HP_state_scheme/sanik202324.pdf EPASS Portal: https://hpepass.cgg.gov.in/NewHomePage.do?actionParameter=stateSchemes FAQ: https://scholarships.gov.in/public/FAQ/HP_Queries.pdf NSP Website: https://scholarships.gov.in/allschemesdomicile Tags associated with the scheme include: Sainik School, Scholarship, Student, Sujanpur.