The name of this welfare scheme is Delhi Ladli Scheme. It is also known as DLS. Delhi Ladli Scheme was launched by the Department of Women &amp; Children Development, Government of the National Capital Territory (NCT) of Delhi on 1st January 2008 to empower girl children born in Delhi. The State Bank Life Insurance Co. Ltd. (SBIL) is the scheme&#39;s Fund Manager. Under this scheme, financial assistance is provided in the form of term deposits: ₹ 11,000/- if born in a hospital or ₹ 10,000/- if delivered at home at the time of registration, and ₹ 5,000/- each in further five milestones i.e., Class 1st, 6th, 9th, 11th, 12th.


Objectives - 

1. To empower the girl child socially and economically.
1. To promote birth registration of girl child.
1. To control female foeticide and to improve the sex ratio.
1. To end discrimination against the girl child.
1. To promote education among girls and reduce the school drop-out rate of girl students.
1. To provide security to girl students for their higher education. The scheme targets beneficiaries such as Individual. It is specifically implemented in Delhi. Additionally, the nodal department is Department of Women and Child Development.

It falls under the categories: Social welfare & Empowerment, Women and Child.

Eligibility criteria include: The girl should be born in Delhi as shown by the birth certificate issued by the Registrar (Births &amp; Deaths), MCD/NDMC.
The applicant must be a bonafide resident of the National Capital Territory of Delhi for at least three years preceding the date of birth of the girl child.
Annual family income should not exceed ₹ 1,00,If a girl is schoolgoing, her school must be recognized by Delhi Govt. / MCD / NDMC.
The benefit of the scheme is limited to two surviving girls per family. For more information, please refer to: Guidelines: http://wcddel.in/streesakti_3Ladli.html FAQs: http://www.wcddel.in/pdf/FAQLadliScheme.pdf Tags associated with the scheme include: Financial Assistance, Girl Child, Social Welfare.